Preface                                                                                   ix
      About the Authors
        Michael Goodrich received his Ph.D. in Computer Science from Purdue University
        in 1987. He is currently a Chancellor’s Professor in the Department of Computer
        Science at University of California, Irvine. Previously, he was a professor at Johns
        Hopkins University. He is a Fulbright Scholar and a Fellow of the American As-
        sociation for the Advancement of Science (AAAS), Association for Computing
        Machinery (ACM), and Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE).
        He is a recipient of the IEEE Computer Society Technical Achievement Award,
        the ACM Recognition of Service Award, and the Pond Award for Excellence in
        Undergraduate Teaching.
             Roberto Tamassia received his Ph.D. in Electrical and Computer Engineering
        from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign in 1988. He is the Plastech
        Professor of Computer Science and the Chair of the Department of Computer Sci-
        ence at Brown University. He is also the Director of Brown’s Center for Geometric
        Computing. His research interests include information security, cryptography, anal-
        ysis, design, and implementation of algorithms, graph drawing and computational
        geometry. He is a Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of
        Science (AAAS), Association for Computing Machinery (ACM) and Institute for
        Electrical and Electronic Engineers (IEEE). He is also a recipient of the Technical
        Achievement Award from the IEEE Computer Society.
             Michael Goldwasser received his Ph.D. in Computer Science from Stanford
        University in 1997. He is currently a Professor in the Department of Mathematics
        and Computer Science at Saint Louis University and the Director of their Com-
        puter Science program. Previously, he was a faculty member in the Department
        of Computer Science at Loyola University Chicago. His research interests focus
        on the design and implementation of algorithms, having published work involving
        approximation algorithms, online computation, computational biology, and compu-
        tational geometry. He is also active in the computer science education community.
      Additional Books by These Authors
        • M.T. Goodrich and R. Tamassia, Data Structures and Algorithms in Java, Wiley.
        • M.T. Goodrich, R. Tamassia, and D.M. Mount, Data Structures and Algorithms
           in C++, Wiley.
        • M.T. Goodrich and R. Tamassia, Algorithm Design: Foundations, Analysis, and
           Internet Examples, Wiley.
        • M.T. Goodrich and R. Tamassia, Introduction to Computer Security, Addison-
           Wesley.
        • M.H. Goldwasser and D. Letscher, Object-Oriented Programming in Python,
           Prentice Hall.
