x                                                                                 Preface
  Acknowledgments
    We have depended greatly upon the contributions of many individuals as part of
    the development of this book. We begin by acknowledging the wonderful team at
    Wiley. We are grateful to our editor, Beth Golub, for her enthusiastic support of
    this project, from beginning to end. The efforts of Elizabeth Mills and Katherine
    Willis were critical in keeping the project moving, from its early stages as an initial
    proposal, through the extensive peer review process. We greatly appreciate the
    attention to detail demonstrated by Julie Kennedy, the copyeditor for this book.
    Finally, many thanks are due to Joyce Poh for managing the ﬁnal months of the
    production process.
         We are truly indebted to the outside reviewers and readers for their copious
    comments, emails, and constructive criticism, which were extremely useful in writ-
    ing this edition. We therefore thank the following reviewers for their comments and
    suggestions: Claude Anderson (Rose Hulman Institute of Technology), Alistair
    Campbell (Hamilton College), Barry Cohen (New Jersey Institute of Technology),
    Robert Franks (Central College), Andrew Harrington (Loyola University Chicago),
    Dave Musicant (Carleton College), and Victor Norman (Calvin College). We wish
    to particularly acknowledge Claude for going above and beyond the call of duty,
    providing us with an enumeration of 400 detailed corrections or suggestions.
         We thank David Mount, of University of Maryland, for graciously sharing the
    wisdom gained from his experience with the C++ version of this text. We are grate-
    ful to Erin Chambers and David Letscher, of Saint Louis University, for their intan-
    gible contributions during many hallway conversations about the teaching of data
    structures, and to David for comments on early versions of the Python code base for
    this book. We thank David Zampino, a student at Loyola University Chicago, for
    his feedback while using a draft of this book during an independent study course,
    and to Andrew Harrington for supervising David’s studies.
         We also wish to reiterate our thanks to the many research collaborators and
    teaching assistants whose feedback shaped the previous Java and C++ versions of
    this material. The beneﬁts of those contributions carry forward to this book.
         Finally, we would like to warmly thank Susan Goldwasser, Isabel Cruz, Karen
    Goodrich, Giuseppe Di Battista, Franco Preparata, Ioannis Tollis, and our parents
    for providing advice, encouragement, and support at various stages of the prepa-
    ration of this book, and Calista and Maya Goldwasser for offering their advice
    regarding the artistic merits of many illustrations. More importantly, we thank all
    of these people for reminding us that there are things in life beyond writing books.
                                                                    Michael T. Goodrich
                                                                       Roberto Tamassia
                                                                 Michael H. Goldwasser
