2.7. Exercises                                                                                103
  2.7     Exercises
          For help with exercises, please visit the site, www.wiley.com/college/goodrich.
      Reinforcement
             R-2.1 Give three examples of life-critical software applications.
             R-2.2 Give an example of a software application in which adaptability can mean
                    the difference between a prolonged lifetime of sales and bankruptcy.
             R-2.3 Describe a component from a text-editor GUI and the methods that it en-
                    capsulates.
             R-2.4 Write a Python class, Flower, that has three instance variables of type str,
                    int, and ﬂoat, that respectively represent the name of the ﬂower, its num-
                    ber of petals, and its price. Your class must include a constructor method
                    that initializes each variable to an appropriate value, and your class should
                    include methods for setting the value of each type, and retrieving the value
                    of each type.
             R-2.5 Use the techniques of Section 1.7 to revise the charge and make payment
                    methods of the CreditCard class to ensure that the caller sends a number
                    as a parameter.
             R-2.6 If the parameter to the make payment method of the CreditCard class
                    were a negative number, that would have the effect of raising the balance
                    on the account. Revise the implementation so that it raises a ValueError if
                    a negative value is sent.
             R-2.7 The CreditCard class of Section 2.3 initializes the balance of a new ac-
                    count to zero. Modify that class so that a new account can be given a
                    nonzero balance using an optional ﬁfth parameter to the constructor. The
                    four-parameter constructor syntax should continue to produce an account
                    with zero balance.
             R-2.8 Modify the declaration of the ﬁrst for loop in the CreditCard tests, from
                    Code Fragment 2.3, so that it will eventually cause exactly one of the three
                    credit cards to go over its credit limit. Which credit card is it?
             R-2.9 Implement the sub method for the Vector class of Section 2.3.3, so
                    that the expression u−v returns a new vector instance representing the
                    difference between two vectors.
           R-2.10 Implement the neg method for the Vector class of Section 2.3.3, so
                    that the expression −v returns a new vector instance whose coordinates
                    are all the negated values of the respective coordinates of v.
