114                                                               Chapter 3. Algorithm Analysis
           Focusing on the Worst-Case Input
             An algorithm may run faster on some inputs than it does on others of the same size.
             Thus, we may wish to express the running time of an algorithm as the function of
             the input size obtained by taking the average over all possible inputs of the same
             size. Unfortunately, such an average-case analysis is typically quite challenging.
             It requires us to deﬁne a probability distribution on the set of inputs, which is often
             a difﬁcult task. Figure 3.2 schematically shows how, depending on the input distri-
             bution, the running time of an algorithm can be anywhere between the worst-case
             time and the best-case time. For example, what if inputs are really only of types
             “A” or “D”?
                  An average-case analysis usually requires that we calculate expected running
             times based on a given input distribution, which usually involves sophisticated
             probability theory. Therefore, for the remainder of this book, unless we specify
             otherwise, we will characterize running times in terms of the worst case, as a func-
             tion of the input size, n, of the algorithm.
                  Worst-case analysis is much easier than average-case analysis, as it requires
             only the ability to identify the worst-case input, which is often simple. Also, this
             approach typically leads to better algorithms. Making the standard of success for an
             algorithm to perform well in the worst case necessarily requires that it will do well
             on every input. That is, designing for the worst case leads to stronger algorithmic
             “muscles,” much like a track star who always practices by running up an incline.
                          5 ms                                                 worst-case time
      Running Time (ms)
                          4 ms
                                                                                average-case time?
                          3 ms
                                                                                best-case time
                          2 ms
                          1 ms
                                 A   B   C     D       E      F       G
                                         Input Instance
             Figure 3.2: The difference between best-case and worst-case time. Each bar repre-
             sents the running time of some algorithm on a different possible input.
