3.4. Simple Justiﬁcation Techniques                                                             137
  3.4     Simple Justiﬁcation Techniques
          Sometimes, we will want to make claims about an algorithm, such as showing that
          it is correct or that it runs fast. In order to rigorously make such claims, we must
          use mathematical language, and in order to back up such claims, we must justify or
          prove our statements. Fortunately, there are several simple ways to do this.
       3.4.1 By Example
          Some claims are of the generic form, “There is an element x in a set S that has
          property P.” To justify such a claim, we only need to produce a particular x in S
          that has property P. Likewise, some hard-to-believe claims are of the generic form,
          “Every element x in a set S has property P.” To justify that such a claim is false, we
          only need to produce a particular x from S that does not have property P. Such an
          instance is called a counterexample.
          Example 3.17: Professor Amongus claims that every number of the form 2i − 1
          is a prime, when i is an integer greater than 1. Professor Amongus is wrong.
          Justiﬁcation: To prove Professor Amongus is wrong, we ﬁnd a counterexample.
          Fortunately, we need not look too far, for 24 − 1 = 15 = 3 · 5.
       3.4.2 The “Contra” Attack
          Another set of justiﬁcation techniques involves the use of the negative. The two
          primary such methods are the use of the contrapositive and the contradiction. The
          use of the contrapositive method is like looking through a negative mirror. To
          justify the statement “if p is true, then q is true,” we establish that “if q is not true,
          then p is not true” instead. Logically, these two statements are the same, but the
          latter, which is called the contrapositive of the ﬁrst, may be easier to think about.
          Example 3.18: Let a and b be integers. If ab is even, then a is even or b is even.
          Justiﬁcation: To justify this claim, consider the contrapositive, “If a is odd and
          b is odd, then ab is odd.” So, suppose a = 2 j + 1 and b = 2k + 1, for some integers
           j and k. Then ab = 4 jk + 2 j + 2k + 1 = 2(2 jk + j + k) + 1; hence, ab is odd.
               Besides showing a use of the contrapositive justiﬁcation technique, the previous
          example also contains an application of DeMorgan’s Law. This law helps us deal
          with negations, for it states that the negation of a statement of the form “p or q” is
          “not p and not q.” Likewise, it states that the negation of a statement of the form
          “p and q” is “not p or not q.”
