4.1. Illustrative Examples                                                                   157
        4.1.4 File Systems
            Modern operating systems deﬁne ﬁle-system directories (which are also sometimes
            called “folders”) in a recursive way. Namely, a ﬁle system consists of a top-level
            directory, and the contents of this directory consists of ﬁles and other directories,
            which in turn can contain ﬁles and other directories, and so on. The operating
            system allows directories to be nested arbitrarily deep (as long as there is enough
            space in memory), although there must necessarily be some base directories that
            contain only ﬁles, not further subdirectories. A representation of a portion of such
            a ﬁle system is given in Figure 4.6.
                                                  /user/rt/courses/
                                  cs016/                                        cs252/
                   grades                                                             grades
                               homeworks/      programs/                 projects/
                        hw1 hw2      hw3    pr1    pr2    pr3
                                                                  papers/          demos/
                                                             buylow    sellhigh    market
                 Figure 4.6: A portion of a ﬁle system demonstrating a nested organization.
                Given the recursive nature of the ﬁle-system representation, it should not come
            as a surprise that many common behaviors of an operating system, such as copying
            a directory or deleting a directory, are implemented with recursive algorithms. In
            this section, we consider one such algorithm: computing the total disk usage for all
            ﬁles and directories nested within a particular directory.
                For illustration, Figure 4.7 portrays the disk space being used by all entries in
            our sample ﬁle system. We differentiate between the immediate disk space used by
            each entry and the cumulative disk space used by that entry and all nested features.
            For example, the cs016 directory uses only 2K of immediate space, but a total of
            249K of cumulative space.
