5.2. Low-Level Arrays                                                                         187
      5.2.1 Referential Arrays
          As another motivating example, assume that we want a medical information system
          to keep track of the patients currently assigned to beds in a certain hospital. If we
          assume that the hospital has 200 beds, and conveniently that those beds are num-
          bered from 0 to 199, we might consider using an array-based structure to maintain
          the names of the patients currently assigned to those beds. For example, in Python
          we might use a list of names, such as:
               [ Rene , Joseph , Janet , Jonas , Helen , Virginia , ... ]
          To represent such a list with an array, Python must adhere to the requirement that
          each cell of the array use the same number of bytes. Yet the elements are strings,
          and strings naturally have different lengths. Python could attempt to reserve enough
          space for each cell to hold the maximum length string (not just of currently stored
          strings, but of any string we might ever want to store), but that would be wasteful.
               Instead, Python represents a list or tuple instance using an internal storage
          mechanism of an array of object references. At the lowest level, what is stored
          is a consecutive sequence of memory addresses at which the elements of the se-
          quence reside. A high-level diagram of such a list is shown in Figure 5.4.
                                          Janet              Jonas
                        Joseph                                                 Helen
                       Rene                                                     Virginia
                                           0   1   2    3    4   5
                             Figure 5.4: An array storing references to strings.
               Although the relative size of the individual elements may vary, the number of
          bits used to store the memory address of each element is ﬁxed (e.g., 64-bits per
          address). In this way, Python can support constant-time access to a list or tuple
          element based on its index.
               In Figure 5.4, we characterize a list of strings that are the names of the patients
          in a hospital. It is more likely that a medical information system would manage
          more comprehensive information on each patient, perhaps represented as an in-
          stance of a Patient class. From the perspective of the list implementation, the same
          principle applies: The list will simply keep a sequence of references to those ob-
          jects. Note as well that a reference to the None object can be used as an element
          of the list to represent an empty bed in the hospital.
