200                                                     Chapter 5. Array-Based Sequences
         Using a ﬁxed increment for each resize, and thus an arithmetic progression of
    intermediate array sizes, results in an overall time that is quadratic in the number
    of operations, as shown in the following proposition. Intuitively, even an increase
    in 1000 cells per resize will become insigniﬁcant for large data sets.
    Proposition 5.2: Performing a series of n append operations on an initially empty
    dynamic array using a ﬁxed increment with each resize takes Ω(n2 ) time.
    Justiﬁcation: Let c > 0 represent the ﬁxed increment in capacity that is used for
    each resize event. During the series of n append operations, time will have been
    spent initializing arrays of size c, 2c, 3c, . . . , mc for m = n/c, and therefore, the
    overall time would be proportional to c + 2c + 3c + · · · + mc. By Proposition 3.3,
    this sum is
                                                            c ( c + 1)
                                                            n n
                    m            m
                                          m(m + 1)                       n2
                   ∑   ci = c · ∑   i = c
                                             2
                                                        ≥ c
                                                                 2
                                                                       ≥
                                                                         2c
                                                                            .
                   i=1          i=1
    Therefore, performing the n append operations takes Ω(n2 ) time.
         A lesson to be learned from Propositions 5.1 and 5.2 is that a subtle difference in
    an algorithm design can produce drastic differences in the asymptotic performance,
    and that a careful analysis can provide important insights into the design of a data
    structure.
    Memory Usage and Shrinking an Array
    Another consequence of the rule of a geometric increase in capacity when append-
    ing to a dynamic array is that the ﬁnal array size is guaranteed to be proportional to
    the overall number of elements. That is, the data structure uses O(n) memory. This
    is a very desirable property for a data structure.
         If a container, such as a Python list, provides operations that cause the removal
    of one or more elements, greater care must be taken to ensure that a dynamic array
    guarantees O(n) memory usage. The risk is that repeated insertions may cause the
    underlying array to grow arbitrarily large, and that there will no longer be a propor-
    tional relationship between the actual number of elements and the array capacity
    after many elements are removed.
         A robust implementation of such a data structure will shrink the underlying
    array, on occasion, while maintaining the O(1) amortized bound on individual op-
    erations. However, care must be taken to ensure that the structure cannot rapidly
    oscillate between growing and shrinking the underlying array, in which case the
    amortized bound would not be achieved. In Exercise C-5.16, we explore a strategy
    in which the array capacity is halved whenever the number of actual element falls
    below one fourth of that capacity, thereby guaranteeing that the array capacity is at
    most four times the number of elements; we explore the amortized analysis of such
    a strategy in Exercises C-5.17 and C-5.18.
