5.7. Exercises                                                                            225
             R-5.9 Explain the changes that would have to be made to the program of Code
                   Fragment 5.11 so that it could perform the Caesar cipher for messages
                   that are written in an alphabet-based language other than English, such as
                   Greek, Russian, or Hebrew.
           R-5.10 The constructor for the CaesarCipher class in Code Fragment 5.11 can
                   be implemented with a two-line body by building the forward and back-
                   ward strings using a combination of the join method and an appropriate
                   comprehension syntax. Give such an implementation.
           R-5.11 Use standard control structures to compute the sum of all numbers in an
                   n × n data set, represented as a list of lists.
           R-5.12 Describe how the built-in sum function can be combined with Python’s
                   comprehension syntax to compute the sum of all numbers in an n × n data
                   set, represented as a list of lists.
      Creativity
           C-5.13 In the experiment of Code Fragment 5.1, we begin with an empty list. If
                   data were initially constructed with nonempty length, does this affect the
                   sequence of values at which the underlying array is expanded? Perform
                   your own experiments, and comment on any relationship you see between
                   the initial length and the expansion sequence.
           C-5.14 The shuﬄe method, supported by the random module, takes a Python
                   list and rearranges it so that every possible ordering is equally likely.
                   Implement your own version of such a function. You may rely on the
                   randrange(n) function of the random module, which returns a random
                   number between 0 and n − 1 inclusive.
           C-5.15 Consider an implementation of a dynamic array, but instead of copying
                   the elements into an array of double the size (that is, from N to 2N) when
                   its capacity is reached, we copy the elements into an array with N/4
                   additional cells, going from capacity N to capacity N + N/4. Prove that
                   performing a sequence of n append operations still runs in O(n) time in
                   this case.
           C-5.16 Implement a pop method for the DynamicArray class, given in Code Frag-
                   ment 5.3, that removes the last element of the array, and that shrinks the
                   capacity, N, of the array by half any time the number of elements in the
                   array goes below N/4.
           C-5.17 Prove that when using a dynamic array that grows and shrinks as in the
                   previous exercise, the following series of 2n operations takes O(n) time:
                   n append operations on an initially empty array, followed by n pop oper-
                   ations.
