226                                              Chapter 5. Array-Based Sequences
    C-5.18 Give a formal proof that any sequence of n append or pop operations on
           an initially empty dynamic array takes O(n) time, if using the strategy
           described in Exercise C-5.16.
    C-5.19 Consider a variant of Exercise C-5.16, in which an array of capacity N is
           resized to capacity precisely that of the number of elements, any time the
           number of elements in the array goes strictly below N/4. Give a formal
           proof that any sequence of n append or pop operations on an initially
           empty dynamic array takes O(n) time.
    C-5.20 Consider a variant of Exercise C-5.16, in which an array of capacity N, is
           resized to capacity precisely that of the number of elements, any time the
           number of elements in the array goes strictly below N/2. Show that there
           exists a sequence of n operations that requires Ω(n2 ) time to execute.
    C-5.21 In Section 5.4.2, we described four different ways to compose a long
           string: (1) repeated concatenation, (2) appending to a temporary list and
           then joining, (3) using list comprehension with join, and (4) using genera-
           tor comprehension with join. Develop an experiment to test the efﬁciency
           of all four of these approaches and report your ﬁndings.
    C-5.22 Develop an experiment to compare the relative efﬁciency of the extend
           method of Python’s list class versus using repeated calls to append to
           accomplish the equivalent task.
    C-5.23 Based on the discussion of page 207, develop an experiment to compare
           the efﬁciency of Python’s list comprehension syntax versus the construc-
           tion of a list by means of repeated calls to append.
    C-5.24 Perform experiments to evaluate the efﬁciency of the remove method of
           Python’s list class, as we did for insert on page 205. Use known values so
           that all removals occur either at the beginning, middle, or end of the list.
           Report your results akin to Table 5.5.
    C-5.25 The syntax data.remove(value) for Python list data removes only the ﬁrst
           occurrence of element value from the list. Give an implementation of a
           function, with signature remove all(data, value), that removes all occur-
           rences of value from the given list, such that the worst-case running time
           of the function is O(n) on a list with n elements. Not that it is not efﬁcient
           enough in general to rely on repeated calls to remove.
    C-5.26 Let B be an array of size n ≥ 6 containing integers from 1 to n − 5, inclu-
           sive, with exactly ﬁve repeated. Describe a good algorithm for ﬁnding the
           ﬁve integers in B that are repeated.
    C-5.27 Given a Python list L of n positive integers, each represented with k =
             log n + 1 bits, describe an O(n)-time method for ﬁnding a k-bit integer
           not in L.
    C-5.28 Argue why any solution to the previous problem must run in Ω(n) time.
