Chapter Notes                                                                                    227
          C-5.29 A useful operation in databases is the natural join. If we view a database
                   as a list of ordered pairs of objects, then the natural join of databases A
                   and B is the list of all ordered triples (x, y, z) such that the pair (x, y) is in
                   A and the pair (y, z) is in B. Describe and analyze an efﬁcient algorithm
                   for computing the natural join of a list A of n pairs and a list B of m pairs.
          C-5.30 When Bob wants to send Alice a message M on the Internet, he breaks M
                   into n data packets, numbers the packets consecutively, and injects them
                   into the network. When the packets arrive at Alice’s computer, they may
                   be out of order, so Alice must assemble the sequence of n packets in order
                   before she can be sure she has the entire message. Describe an efﬁcient
                   scheme for Alice to do this, assuming that she knows the value of n. What
                   is the running time of this algorithm?
          C-5.31 Describe a way to use recursion to add all the numbers in an n × n data
                   set, represented as a list of lists.
      Projects
          P-5.32 Write a Python function that takes two three-dimensional numeric data
                   sets and adds them componentwise.
          P-5.33 Write a Python program for a matrix class that can add and multiply two-
                   dimensional arrays of numbers, assuming the dimensions agree appropri-
                   ately for the operation.
          P-5.34 Write a program that can perform the Caesar cipher for English messages
                   that include both upper- and lowercase characters.
          P-5.35 Implement a class, SubstitutionCipher, with a constructor that takes a
                   string with the 26 uppercase letters in an arbitrary order and uses that for
                   the forward mapping for encryption (akin to the self. forward string in
                   our CaesarCipher class of Code Fragment 5.11). You should derive the
                   backward mapping from the forward version.
          P-5.36 Redesign the CaesarCipher class as a subclass of the SubstitutionCipher
                   from the previous problem.
          P-5.37 Design a RandomCipher class as a subclass of the SubstitutionCipher
                   from Exercise P-5.35, so that each instance of the class relies on a random
                   permutation of letters for its mapping.
 Chapter Notes
         The fundamental data structures of arrays belong to the folklore of computer science. They
         were ﬁrst chronicled in the computer science literature by Knuth in his seminal book on
         Fundamental Algorithms [64].
