4                                                               Chapter 1. Python Primer
  1.2    Objects in Python
         Python is an object-oriented language and classes form the basis for all data types.
         In this section, we describe key aspects of Python’s object model, and we intro-
         duce Python’s built-in classes, such as the int class for integers, the ﬂoat class
         for ﬂoating-point values, and the str class for character strings. A more thorough
         presentation of object-orientation is the focus of Chapter 2.
      1.2.1 Identiﬁers, Objects, and the Assignment Statement
         The most important of all Python commands is an assignment statement, such as
              temperature = 98.6
         This command establishes temperature as an identiﬁer (also known as a name),
         and then associates it with the object expressed on the right-hand side of the equal
         sign, in this case a ﬂoating-point object with value 98.6. We portray the outcome
         of this assignment in Figure 1.1.
                                                               ﬂoat
                                    temperature
                                                               98.6
         Figure 1.1: The identiﬁer temperature references an instance of the ﬂoat class
         having value 98.6.
         Identiﬁers
         Identiﬁers in Python are case-sensitive, so temperature and Temperature are dis-
         tinct names. Identiﬁers can be composed of almost any combination of letters,
         numerals, and underscore characters (or more general Unicode characters). The
         primary restrictions are that an identiﬁer cannot begin with a numeral (thus 9lives
         is an illegal name), and that there are 33 specially reserved words that cannot be
         used as identiﬁers, as shown in Table 1.1.
                                            Reserved Words
          False    as       continue    else      from      in         not    return   yield
          None     assert   def         except global is               or     try
          True     break    del         ﬁnally if           lambda     pass   while
          and      class    elif        for       import nonlocal      raise  with
         Table 1.1: A listing of the reserved words in Python. These names cannot be used
         as identiﬁers.
