300                                                                                                     Chapter 8. Trees
 8.1   General Trees
       Productivity experts say that breakthroughs come by thinking “nonlinearly.” In
       this chapter, we discuss one of the most important nonlinear data structures in
       computing—trees. Tree structures are indeed a breakthrough in data organization,
       for they allow us to implement a host of algorithms much faster than when using
       linear data structures, such as array-based lists or linked lists. Trees also provide a
       natural organization for data, and consequently have become ubiquitous structures
       in ﬁle systems, graphical user interfaces, databases, Web sites, and other computer
       systems.
           It is not always clear what productivity experts mean by “nonlinear” thinking,
       but when we say that trees are “nonlinear,” we are referring to an organizational
       relationship that is richer than the simple “before” and “after” relationships be-
       tween objects in sequences. The relationships in a tree are hierarchical, with some
       objects being “above” and some “below” others. Actually, the main terminology
       for tree data structures comes from family trees, with the terms “parent,” “child,”
       “ancestor,” and “descendant” being the most common words used to describe rela-
       tionships. We show an example of a family tree in Figure 8.1.
                                                       Abraham
                                               Isaac
                  Ishmael                                                         Zimran    Jokshan   Medan   Midian   Ishbak   Shuah
        Nebaioth
                                                                 Jacob (Israel)
                                                                                                           Ephah
           Kedar
          Adbeel
         Mibsam                      Esau                                                  Sheba           Epher
         Mishma                                                                                           Hanoch
          Dumah
           Massa
          Hadad                                                                            Dedan           Abida
           Tema
            Jetur
         Naphish                                                                                          Eldaah
        Kedemah
                                 Eliphaz       Reuben
                                               Simeon
                                  Reuel           Levi
                                                 Judah
                                   Jeush           Dan
                                              Naphtali
                                  Jalam            Gad
                                                 Asher
                                  Korah       Issachar
                                              Zebulun
                                                 Dinah
                                                Joseph
                                             Benjamin
       Figure 8.1: A family tree showing some descendants of Abraham, as recorded in
       Genesis, chapters 25–36.
