304                                                                       Chapter 8. Trees
    Ordered Trees
    A tree is ordered if there is a meaningful linear order among the children of each
    node; that is, we purposefully identify the children of a node as being the ﬁrst,
    second, third, and so on. Such an order is usually visualized by arranging siblings
    left to right, according to their order.
    Example 8.3: The components of a structured document, such as a book, are hier-
    archically organized as a tree whose internal nodes are parts, chapters, and sections,
    and whose leaves are paragraphs, tables, ﬁgures, and so on. (See Figure 8.6.) The
    root of the tree corresponds to the book itself. We could, in fact, consider expanding
    the tree further to show paragraphs consisting of sentences, sentences consisting of
    words, and words consisting of characters. Such a tree is an example of an ordered
    tree, because there is a well-deﬁned order among the children of each node.
                                               Book
       Preface                Part A                             Part B        References
       ¶  ...  ¶    Ch. 1     ...      Ch. 5               Ch. 6   ...  Ch. 9     ¶  ...  ¶
              § 1.1 ... § 1.4     § 5.1 ... § 5.7     § 6.1 ... § 6.5   § 9.1 ... § 9.6
            ¶  ...  ¶                             ...                            ¶  ...  ¶
                      Figure 8.6: An ordered tree associated with a book.
         Let’s look back at the other examples of trees that we have described thus far,
    and consider whether the order of children is signiﬁcant. A family tree that de-
    scribes generational relationships, as in Figure 8.1, is often modeled as an ordered
    tree, with siblings ordered according to their birth.
         In contrast, an organizational chart for a company, as in Figure 8.2, is typically
    considered an unordered tree. Likewise, when using a tree to describe an inher-
    itance hierarchy, as in Figure 8.4, there is no particular signiﬁcance to the order
    among the subclasses of a parent class. Finally, we consider the use of a tree in
    modeling a computer’s ﬁle system, as in Figure 8.3. Although an operating system
    often displays entries of a directory in a particular order (e.g., alphabetical, chrono-
    logical), such an order is not typically inherent to the ﬁle system’s representation.
