8.2. Binary Trees                                                                               311
  8.2     Binary Trees
          A binary tree is an ordered tree with the following properties:
              1. Every node has at most two children.
              2. Each child node is labeled as being either a left child or a right child.
              3. A left child precedes a right child in the order of children of a node.
          The subtree rooted at a left or right child of an internal node v is called a left subtree
          or right subtree, respectively, of v. A binary tree is proper if each node has either
          zero or two children. Some people also refer to such trees as being full binary
          trees. Thus, in a proper binary tree, every internal node has exactly two children.
          A binary tree that is not proper is improper.
          Example 8.6: An important class of binary trees arises in contexts where we wish
          to represent a number of different outcomes that can result from answering a series
          of yes-or-no questions. Each internal node is associated with a question. Starting at
          the root, we go to the left or right child of the current node, depending on whether
          the answer to the question is “Yes” or “No.” With each decision, we follow an
          edge from a parent to a child, eventually tracing a path in the tree from the root
          to a leaf. Such binary trees are known as decision trees, because a leaf position p
          in such a tree represents a decision of what to do if the questions associated with
          p’s ancestors are answered in a way that leads to p. A decision tree is a proper
          binary tree. Figure 8.7 illustrates a decision tree that provides recommendations to
          a prospective investor.
                                         Are you nervous?
                                 Yes                        No
                                                   Will you need to access most of the
                       Savings account.            money within the next 5 years?
                                           Yes                         No
                                                   Are you willing to accept risks in
                       Money market fund.
                                                   exchange for higher expected returns?
                                                Yes                        No
                                                            Diversiﬁed portfolio with stocks,
                                  Stock portfolio.          bonds, and short-term instruments.
                         Figure 8.7: A decision tree providing investment advice.
