316                                                                   Chapter 8. Trees
    Relating Internal Nodes to External Nodes in a Proper Binary Tree
    In addition to the earlier binary tree properties, the following relationship exists
    between the number of internal nodes and external nodes in a proper binary tree.
    Proposition 8.9: In a nonempty proper binary tree T , with nE external nodes and
    nI internal nodes, we have nE = nI + 1.
    Justiﬁcation: We justify this proposition by removing nodes from T and divid-
    ing them up into two “piles,” an internal-node pile and an external-node pile, until
    T becomes empty. The piles are initially empty. By the end, we will show that the
    external-node pile has one more node than the internal-node pile. We consider two
    cases:
    Case 1: If T has only one node v, we remove v and place it on the external-node
            pile. Thus, the external-node pile has one node and the internal-node pile is
            empty.
    Case 2: Otherwise (T has more than one node), we remove from T an (arbitrary)
            external node w and its parent v, which is an internal node. We place w on
            the external-node pile and v on the internal-node pile. If v has a parent u,
            then we reconnect u with the former sibling z of w, as shown in Figure 8.10.
            This operation, removes one internal node and one external node, and leaves
            the tree being a proper binary tree.
            Repeating this operation, we eventually are left with a ﬁnal tree consisting
            of a single node. Note that the same number of external and internal nodes
            have been removed and placed on their respective piles by the sequence of
            operations leading to this ﬁnal tree. Now, we remove the node of the ﬁnal
            tree and we place it on the external-node pile. Thus, the the external-node
            pile has one more node than the internal-node pile.
                      u                           u
              v                                                           u
          z        w                    z                           z
                     (a)                         (b)                        (c)
    Figure 8.10: Operation that removes an external node and its parent node, used in
    the justiﬁcation of Proposition 8.9.
        Note that the above relationship does not hold, in general, for improper binary
    trees and nonbinary trees, although there are other interesting relationships that do
    hold. (See Exercises C-8.32 through C-8.34.)
