352                                                                           Chapter 8. Trees
 8.6    Exercises
        For help with exercises, please visit the site, www.wiley.com/college/goodrich.
     Reinforcement
          R-8.1 The following questions refer to the tree of Figure 8.3.
                     a. Which node is the root?
                     b. What are the internal nodes?
                     c. How many descendants does node cs016/ have?
                    d. How many ancestors does node cs016/ have?
                     e. What are the siblings of node homeworks/?
                     f. Which nodes are in the subtree rooted at node projects/?
                    g. What is the depth of node papers/?
                    h. What is the height of the tree?
          R-8.2 Show a tree achieving the worst-case running time for algorithm depth.
          R-8.3 Give a justiﬁcation of Proposition 8.4.
          R-8.4 What is the running time of a call to T. height2(p) when called on a
                  position p distinct from the root of T? (See Code Fragment 8.5.)
          R-8.5 Describe an algorithm, relying only on the BinaryTree operations, that
                  counts the number of leaves in a binary tree that are the left child of their
                  respective parent.
          R-8.6 Let T be an n-node binary tree that may be improper. Describe how to
                  represent T by means of a proper binary tree T  with O(n) nodes.
          R-8.7 What are the minimum and maximum number of internal and external
                  nodes in an improper binary tree with n nodes?
          R-8.8 Answer the following questions so as to justify Proposition 8.8.
                     a. What is the minimum number of external nodes for a proper binary
                        tree with height h? Justify your answer.
                     b. What is the maximum number of external nodes for a proper binary
                        tree with height h? Justify your answer.
                     c. Let T be a proper binary tree with height h and n nodes. Show that
                                             log(n + 1) − 1 ≤ h ≤ (n − 1)/2.
                    d. For which values of n and h can the above lower and upper bounds
                        on h be attained with equality?
          R-8.9 Give a proof by induction of Proposition 8.9.
         R-8.10 Give a direct implementation of the num children method within the class
                  BinaryTree.
