356                                                                         Chapter 8. Trees
     C-8.41 Describe how to clone a LinkedBinaryTree instance representing a proper
               binary tree, with use of the attach method.
     C-8.42 Describe how to clone a LinkedBinaryTree instance representing a (not
               necessarily proper) binary tree, with use of the add left and add right
               methods.
     C-8.43 We can deﬁne a binary tree representation T  for an ordered general tree
               T as follows (see Figure 8.23):
                   • For each position p of T , there is an associated position p of T  .
                   • If p is a leaf of T , then p in T  does not have a left child; otherwise
                     the left child of p is q , where q is the ﬁrst child of p in T .
                   • If p has a sibling q ordered immediately after it in T , then q is the
                     right child of p in T ; otherwise p does not have a right child.
               Given such a representation T  of a general ordered tree T , answer each
               of the following questions:
                  a. Is a preorder traversal of T  equivalent to a preorder traversal of T ?
                  b. Is a postorder traversal of T  equivalent to a postorder traversal of T ?
                  c. Is an inorder traversal of T  equivalent to one of the standard traver-
                     sals of T ? If so, which one?
                                       A                                   A
                              B        C       D                  B
                         E        F            G           E            C
                                                               F             D
                                                                      G
                                    (a)                           (b)
    Figure 8.23: Representation of a tree with a binary tree: (a) tree T ; (b) binary tree
    T  for T . The dashed edges connect nodes of T  that are siblings in T .
     C-8.44 Give an efﬁcient algorithm that computes and prints, for every position p
               of a tree T , the element of p followed by the height of p’s subtree.
     C-8.45 Give an O(n)-time algorithm for computing the depths of all positions of
               a tree T , where n is the number of nodes of T .
     C-8.46 The path length of a tree T is the sum of the depths of all positions in T .
               Describe a linear-time method for computing the path length of a tree T .
     C-8.47 The balance factor of an internal position p of a proper binary tree is the
               difference between the heights of the right and left subtrees of p. Show
               how to specialize the Euler tour traversal of Section 8.4.6 to print the
               balance factors of all the internal nodes of a proper binary tree.
