358                                                                  Chapter 8. Trees
                                                                Sales (
                   Sales                                          Domestic
                                                                  International (
                                                                     Canada
                                                                     S. America
          Domestic       International
                                                                     Overseas (
                                                                        Africa
                                                                        Europe
             Canada     S. America     Overseas                         Asia
                                                                        Australia
                                                                     )
                                                                  )
                          Africa    Europe    Asia   Australia  )
                                    (a)                                 (b)
         Figure 8.24: (a) Tree T ; (b) indented parenthetic representation of T .
    C-8.56 The indented parenthetic representation of a tree T is a variation of the
           parenthetic representation of T (see Code Fragment 8.25) that uses inden-
           tation and line breaks as illustrated in Figure 8.24. Give an algorithm that
           prints this representation of a tree.
    C-8.57 Let T be a binary tree with n positions. Deﬁne a Roman position to be
           a position p in T , such that the number of descendants in p’s left subtree
           differ from the number of descendants in p’s right subtree by at most 5.
           Describe a linear-time method for ﬁnding each position p of T , such that
           p is not a Roman position, but all of p’s descendants are Roman.
    C-8.58 Let T be a tree with n positions. Deﬁne the lowest common ancestor
           (LCA) between two positions p and q as the lowest position in T that has
           both p and q as descendants (where we allow a position to be a descendant
           of itself ). Given two positions p and q, describe an efﬁcient algorithm for
           ﬁnding the LCA of p and q. What is the running time of your algorithm?
    C-8.59 Let T be a binary tree with n positions, and, for any position p in T , let d p
           denote the depth of p in T . The distance between two positions p and q
           in T is d p + dq − 2da , where a is the lowest common ancestor (LCA) of p
           and q. The diameter of T is the maximum distance between two positions
           in T . Describe an efﬁcient algorithm for ﬁnding the diameter of T . What
           is the running time of your algorithm?
    C-8.60 Suppose each position p of a binary tree T is labeled with its value f (p) in
           a level numbering of T . Design a fast method for determining f (a) for the
           lowest common ancestor (LCA), a, of two positions p and q in T , given
            f (p) and f (q). You do not need to ﬁnd position a, just value f (a).
    C-8.61 Give an alternative implementation of the build expression tree method
           of the ExpressionTree class that relies on recursion to perform an implicit
           Euler tour of the tree that is being built.
