9.4. Sorting with a Priority Queue                                                           385
  9.4      Sorting with a Priority Queue
           In deﬁning the priority queue ADT, we noted that any type of object can be used as
           a key, but that any pair of keys must be comparable to each other, and that the set
           of keys be naturally ordered. In Python, it is common to rely on the < operator to
           deﬁne such an order, in which case the following properties must be satisﬁed:
                • Irreﬂexive property: k < k.
                • Transitive property: if k1 < k2 and k2 < k3 , then k1 < k3 .
           Formally, such a relationship deﬁnes what is known as a strict weak order, as it
           allows for keys to be considered equal to each other, but the broader equivalence
           classes are totally ordered, as they can be uniquely arranged from smallest to largest
           due to the transitive property.
                As our ﬁrst application of priority queues, we demonstrate how they can be
           used to sort a collection C of comparable elements. That is, we can produce a
           sequence of elements of C in increasing order (or at least in nondecreasing order if
           there are duplicates). The algorithm is quite simple—we insert all elements into an
           initially empty priority queue, and then we repeatedly call remove min to retrieve
           the elements in nondecreasing order.
                An implementation of this algorithm is given in Code Fragment 9.7, assuming
           that C is a positional list. (See Chapter 7.4.) We use an original element of the
           collection as both a key and value when calling P.add(element, element).
       1 def pq sort(C):
       2     ”””Sort a collection of elements stored in a positional list.”””
       3     n = len(C)
       4     P = PriorityQueue( )
       5     for j in range(n):
       6        element = C.delete(C.ﬁrst( ))
       7        P.add(element, element)             # use element as key and value
       8     for j in range(n):
       9        (k,v) = P.remove min( )
      10        C.add last(v)                       # store smallest remaining element in C
           Code Fragment 9.7: An implementation of the pq sort function, assuming an ap-
           propriate implementation of a PriorityQueue class. Note that each element of the
           input list C serves as its own key in the priority queue P.
                With a minor modiﬁcation to this code, we can provide more general sup-
           port, sorting elements according to an ordering other than the default. For exam-
           ple, when working with strings, the < operator deﬁnes a lexicographic ordering,
           which is an extension of the alphabetic ordering to Unicode. For example, we have
           that 12 < 4 because of the order of the ﬁrst character of each string, just as
