402                                     Chapter 10. Maps, Hash Tables, and Skip Lists
 10.1   Maps and Dictionaries
      Python’s dict class is arguably the most signiﬁcant data structure in the language. It
      represents an abstraction known as a dictionary in which unique keys are mapped
      to associated values. Because of the relationship they express between keys and
      values, dictionaries are commonly known as associative arrays or maps. In this
      book, we use the term dictionary when speciﬁcally discussing Python’s dict class,
      and the term map when discussing the more general notion of the abstract data type.
           As a simple example, Figure 10.1 illustrates a map from the names of countries
      to their associated units of currency.
              Turkey         Spain      Greece       China    United States    India
                Lira               Euro              Yuan         Dollar      Rupee
      Figure 10.1: A map from countries (the keys) to their units of currency (the values).
      We note that the keys (the country names) are assumed to be unique, but the values
      (the currency units) are not necessarily unique. For example, we note that Spain
      and Greece both use the euro for currency. Maps use an array-like syntax for in-
      dexing, such as currency[ Greece ] to access a value associated with a given key
      or currency[ Greece ] = Drachma to remap it to a new value. Unlike a stan-
      dard array, indices for a map need not be consecutive nor even numeric. Common
      applications of maps include the following.
          • A university’s information system relies on some form of a student ID as a
             key that is mapped to that student’s associated record (such as the student’s
             name, address, and course grades) serving as the value.
          • The domain-name system (DNS) maps a host name, such as www.wiley.com,
             to an Internet-Protocol (IP) address, such as 208.215.179.146.
          • A social media site typically relies on a (nonnumeric) username as a key that
             can be efﬁciently mapped to a particular user’s associated information.
          • A computer graphics system may map a color name, such as turquoise ,
             to the triple of numbers that describes the color’s RGB (red-green-blue) rep-
             resentation, such as (64,224,208).
          • Python uses a dictionary to represent each namespace, mapping an identifying
             string, such as pi , to an associated object, such as 3.14159.
           In this chapter and the next we demonstrate that a map may be implemented so
      that a search for a key, and its associated value, can be performed very efﬁciently,
      thereby supporting fast lookup in such applications.
