10.3. Sorted Maps                                                                           435
         Maxima Sets
         Life is full of trade-offs. We often have to trade off a desired performance measure
         against a corresponding cost. Suppose, for the sake of an example, we are interested
         in maintaining a database rating automobiles by their maximum speeds and their
         cost. We would like to allow someone with a certain amount of money to query our
         database to ﬁnd the fastest car they can possibly afford.
              We can model such a trade-off problem as this by using a key-value pair to
         model the two parameters that we are trading off, which in this case would be the
         pair (cost, speed) for each car. Notice that some cars are strictly better than other
         cars using this measure. For example, a car with cost-speed pair (20000, 100) is
         strictly better than a car with cost-speed pair (30000, 90). At the same time, there
         are some cars that are not strictly dominated by another car. For example, a car with
         cost-speed pair (20000, 100) may be better or worse than a car with cost-speed pair
         (30000, 120), depending on how much money we have to spend. (See Figure 10.9.)
                                                                   g h
                               Performance
                                                               f
                                                 p
                                                           e
                                                     c d
                                                 b
                                             a
                                                     Cost
         Figure 10.9: Illustrating the cost-performance trade-off with pairs represented by
         points in the plane. Notice that point p is strictly better than points c, d, and e, but
         may be better or worse than points a, b, f , g, and h, depending on the price we are
         willing to pay. Thus, if we were to add p to our set, we could remove the points c,
         d, and e, but not the others.
              Formally, we say a cost-performance pair (a, b) dominates pair (c, d) = (a, b)
         if a ≤ c and b ≥ d, that is, if the ﬁrst pair has no greater cost and at least as good
         performance. A pair (a, b) is called a maximum pair if it is not dominated by any
         other pair. We are interested in maintaining the set of maxima of a collection of
         cost-performance pairs. That is, we would like to add new pairs to this collection
         (for example, when a new car is introduced), and to query this collection for a given
         dollar amount, d, to ﬁnd the fastest car that costs no more than d dollars.
