440                                    Chapter 10. Maps, Hash Tables, and Skip Lists
    Algorithm SkipSearch(k):
         Input: A search key k
         Output: Position p in the bottom list S0 with the largest key such that key(p) ≤ k
          p = start                                                 {begin at start position}
          while below(p) = None do
            p = below(p)                                                       {drop down}
            while k ≥ key(next(p)) do
               p = next(p)                                                  {scan forward}
          return p.
              Code Fragment 10.12: Algorthm to search a skip list S for key k.
         As it turns out, the expected running time of algorithm SkipSearch on a skip list
    with n entries is O(log n). We postpone the justiﬁcation of this fact, however, until
    after we discuss the implementation of the update methods for skip lists. Navigation
    starting at the position identiﬁed by SkipSearch(k) can be easily used to provide the
    additional forms of searches in the sorted map ADT (e.g., ﬁnd gt, ﬁnd range).
    Insertion in a Skip List
    The execution of the map operation M[k] = v begins with a call to SkipSearch(k).
    This gives us the position p of the bottom-level item with the largest key less than or
    equal to k (note that p may hold the special item with key −∞). If key(p) = k, the
    associated value is overwritten with v. Otherwise, we need to create a new tower for
    item (k, v). We insert (k, v) immediately after position p within S0 . After inserting
    the new item at the bottom level, we use randomization to decide the height of the
    tower for the new item. We “ﬂip” a coin, and if the ﬂip comes up tails, then we stop
    here. Else (the ﬂip comes up heads), we backtrack to the previous (next higher)
    level and insert (k, v) in this level at the appropriate position. We again ﬂip a coin;
    if it comes up heads, we go to the next higher level and repeat. Thus, we continue
    to insert the new item (k, v) in lists until we ﬁnally get a ﬂip that comes up tails.
    We link together all the references to the new item (k, v) created in this process to
    create its tower. A coin ﬂip can be simulated with Python’s built-in pseudo-random
    number generator from the random module by calling randrange(2), which returns
    0 or 1, each with probability 1/2.
         We give the insertion algorithm for a skip list S in Code Fragment 10.13 and
    we illustrate it in Figure 10.12. The algorithm uses an insertAfterAbove(p, q, (k, v))
    method that inserts a position storing the item (k, v) after position p (on the same
    level as p) and above position q, returning the new position r (and setting internal
    references so that next, prev, above, and below methods will work correctly for p,
    q, and r). The expected running time of the insertion algorithm on a skip list with
    n entries is O(log n), which we show in Section 10.4.2.
