10.4. Skip Lists                                                                                443
          Maintaining the Topmost Level
          A skip list S must maintain a reference to the start position (the topmost, left po-
          sition in S) as an instance variable, and must have a policy for any insertion that
          wishes to continue inserting a new entry past the top level of S. There are two
          possible courses of action we can take, both of which have their merits.
               One possibility is to restrict the top level, h, to be kept at some ﬁxed value that
          is a function of n, the number of entries currently in the map (from the analysis we
          will see that h = max{10, 2 log n} is a reasonable choice, and picking h = 3 log n
          is even safer). Implementing this choice means that we must modify the insertion
          algorithm to stop inserting a new position once we reach the topmost level (unless
           log n < log(n + 1), in which case we can now go at least one more level, since
          the bound on the height is increasing).
               The other possibility is to let an insertion continue inserting a new position as
          long as heads keeps getting returned from the random number generator. This is
          the approach taken by algorithm SkipInsert of Code Fragment 10.13. As we show
          in the analysis of skip lists, the probability that an insertion will go to a level that is
          more than O(log n) is very low, so this design choice should also work.
               Either choice will still result in the expected O(log n) time to perform search,
          insertion, and removal, however, which we show in the next section.
       10.4.2 Probabilistic Analysis of Skip Lists 
          As we have shown above, skip lists provide a simple implementation of a sorted
          map. In terms of worst-case performance, however, skip lists are not a superior data
          structure. In fact, if we do not ofﬁcially prevent an insertion from continuing signif-
          icantly past the current highest level, then the insertion algorithm can go into what
          is almost an inﬁnite loop (it is not actually an inﬁnite loop, however, since the prob-
          ability of having a fair coin repeatedly come up heads forever is 0). Moreover, we
          cannot inﬁnitely add positions to a list without eventually running out of memory.
          In any case, if we terminate position insertion at the highest level h, then the worst-
          case running time for performing the getitem , setitem , and delitem
          map operations in a skip list S with n entries and height h is O(n + h). This worst-
          case performance occurs when the tower of every entry reaches level h − 1, where
          h is the height of S. However, this event has very low probability. Judging from
          this worst case, we might conclude that the skip-list structure is strictly inferior to
          the other map implementations discussed earlier in this chapter. But this would not
          be a fair analysis, for this worst-case behavior is a gross overestimate.
