444                                    Chapter 10. Maps, Hash Tables, and Skip Lists
    Bounding the Height of a Skip List
    Because the insertion step involves randomization, a more accurate analysis of skip
    lists involves a bit of probability. At ﬁrst, this might seem like a major undertaking,
    for a complete and thorough probabilistic analysis could require deep mathemat-
    ics (and, indeed, there are several such deep analyses that have appeared in data
    structures research literature). Fortunately, such an analysis is not necessary to un-
    derstand the expected asymptotic behavior of skip lists. The informal and intuitive
    probabilistic analysis we give below uses only basic concepts of probability theory.
         Let us begin by determining the expected value of the height h of a skip list S
    with n entries (assuming that we do not terminate insertions early). The probability
    that a given entry has a tower of height i ≥ 1 is equal to the probability of getting i
    consecutive heads when ﬂipping a coin, that is, this probability is 1/2i . Hence, the
    probability Pi that level i has at least one position is at most
                                                    n
                                              Pi ≤     ,
                                                   2i
    for the probability that any one of n different events occurs is at most the sum of
    the probabilities that each occurs.
         The probability that the height h of S is larger than i is equal to the probability
    that level i has at least one position, that is, it is no more than Pi . This means that h
    is larger than, say, 3 log n with probability at most
                                                       n
                                     P3 log n ≤
                                                   23 log n
                                                    n        1
                                               =     3
                                                         = 2.
                                                   n        n
    For example, if n = 1000, this probability is a one-in-a-million long shot. More
    generally, given a constant c > 1, h is larger than c log n with probability at most
    1/nc−1 . That is, the probability that h is smaller than c log n is at least 1 − 1/nc−1 .
    Thus, with high probability, the height h of S is O(log n).
    Analyzing Search Time in a Skip List
    Next, consider the running time of a search in skip list S, and recall that such a
    search involves two nested while loops. The inner loop performs a scan forward on
    a level of S as long as the next key is no greater than the search key k, and the outer
    loop drops down to the next level and repeats the scan forward iteration. Since the
    height h of S is O(log n) with high probability, the number of drop-down steps is
    O(log n) with high probability.
