474                                                              Chapter 11. Search Trees
                                                          Operation     Running Time
                                                              k in T    O(h)
                                                      T[k], T[k] = v    O(h)
                                              T.delete(p), del T[k]     O(h)
                                                 T.ﬁnd position(k)      O(h)
                T.ﬁrst( ), T.last( ), T.ﬁnd min( ), T.ﬁnd max( )        O(h)
                                            T.before(p), T.after(p)     O(h)
          T.ﬁnd lt(k), T.ﬁnd le(k), T.ﬁnd gt(k), T.ﬁnd ge(k)            O(h)
                                          T.ﬁnd range(start, stop)      O(s + h)
                                               iter(T), reversed(T)     O(n)
    Table 11.1: Worst-case running times of the operations for a TreeMap T. We denote
    the current height of the tree with h, and the number of items reported by ﬁnd range
    as s. The space usage is O(n), where n is the number of items stored in the map.
         A binary search tree T is therefore an efﬁcient implementation of a map with n
    entries only if its height is small. In the best case, T has height h = log(n+ 1)− 1,
    which yields logarithmic-time performance for all the map operations. In the worst
    case, however, T has height n, in which case it would look and feel like an ordered
    list implementation of a map. Such a worst-case conﬁguration arises, for example,
    if we insert items with keys in increasing or decreasing order. (See Figure 11.7.)
                                           10
                                               20
                                                   30
                                                       40
    Figure 11.7: Example of a binary search tree with linear height, obtained by insert-
    ing entries with keys in increasing order.
         We can nevertheless take comfort that, on average, a binary search tree with
    n keys generated from a random series of insertions and removals of keys has ex-
    pected height O(log n); the justiﬁcation of this statement is beyond the scope of the
    book, requiring careful mathematical language to precisely deﬁne what we mean
    by a random series of insertions and removals, and sophisticated probability theory.
         In applications where one cannot guarantee the random nature of updates, it
    is better to rely on variations of search trees, presented in the remainder of this
    chapter, that guarantee a worst-case height of O(log n), and thus O(log n) worst-
    case time for searches, insertions, and deletions.
