11.3. AVL Trees                                                                             483
          By substituting the above value of i in Formula 11.3, we obtain, for h â‰¥ 3,
                                                                    
                                               h
                                                  âˆ’1            h
                                 n(h) > 2 2           Â·n hâˆ’2       +2
                                                                 2
                                        â‰¥ 2 2 âˆ’1 n(1)
                                               h
                                        â‰¥ 2 2 âˆ’1 .
                                             h
                                                                                          (11.4)
          By taking logarithms of both sides of Formula 11.4, we obtain
                                                          h
                                          log(n(h)) >       âˆ’ 1,
                                                          2
          from which we get
                                          h < 2 log(n(h)) + 2,                            (11.5)
          which implies that an AVL tree storing n entries has height at most 2 logn + 2.
              By Proposition 11.2 and the analysis of binary search trees given in Section 11.1,
          the operation getitem , in a map implemented with an AVL tree, runs in time
          O(log n), where n is the number of items in the map. Of course, we still have to
          show how to maintain the height-balance property after an insertion or deletion.
       11.3.1 Update Operations
          Given a binary search tree T , we say that a position is balanced if the absolute
          value of the difference between the heights of its children is at most 1, and we say
          that it is unbalanced otherwise. Thus, the height-balance property characterizing
          AVL trees is equivalent to saying that every position is balanced.
              The insertion and deletion operations for AVL trees begin similarly to the corre-
          sponding operations for (standard) binary search trees, but with post-processing for
          each operation to restore the balance of any portions of the tree that are adversely
          affected by the change.
          Insertion
          Suppose that tree T satisï¬es the height-balance property, and hence is an AVL tree,
          prior to the insertion of a new item. An insertion of a new item in a binary search
          tree, as described in Section 11.1.3, results in a new node at a leaf position p. This
          action may violate the height-balance property (see, for example, Figure 11.12a),
          yet the only positions that may become unbalanced are ancestors of p, because
          those are the only positions whose subtrees have changed. Therefore, let us de-
          scribe how to restructure T to ï¬x any unbalance that may have occurred.
