30                                                               Chapter 1. Python Primer
 1.6    Simple Input and Output
        In this section, we address the basics of input and output in Python, describing stan-
        dard input and output through the user console, and Python’s support for reading
        and writing text ﬁles.
     1.6.1 Console Input and Output
        The print Function
        The built-in function, print, is used to generate standard output to the console.
        In its simplest form, it prints an arbitrary sequence of arguments, separated by
        spaces, and followed by a trailing newline character. For example, the command
        print( maroon , 5) outputs the string maroon 5\n . Note that arguments need
        not be string instances. A nonstring argument x will be displayed as str(x). Without
        any arguments, the command print( ) outputs a single newline character.
            The print function can be customized through the use of the following keyword
        parameters (see Section 1.5 for a discussion of keyword parameters):
            • By default, the print function inserts a separating space into the output be-
               tween each pair of arguments. The separator can be customized by providing
               a desired separating string as a keyword parameter, sep. For example, colon-
               separated output can be produced as print(a, b, c, sep= : ). The separating
               string need not be a single character; it can be a longer string, and it can be
               the empty string, sep= , causing successive arguments to be directly con-
               catenated.
            • By default, a trailing newline is output after the ﬁnal argument. An alterna-
               tive trailing string can be designated using a keyword parameter, end. Des-
               ignating the empty string end= suppresses all trailing characters.
            • By default, the print function sends its output to the standard console. How-
               ever, output can be directed to a ﬁle by indicating an output ﬁle stream (see
               Section 1.6.2) using ﬁle as a keyword parameter.
        The input Function
        The primary means for acquiring information from the user console is a built-in
        function named input. This function displays a prompt, if given as an optional pa-
        rameter, and then waits until the user enters some sequence of characters followed
        by the return key. The formal return value of the function is the string of characters
        that were entered strictly before the return key (i.e., no newline character exists in
        the returned string).
