498                                                           Chapter 11. Search Trees
    An Accounting Analysis of Splaying
    When we perform a splaying, we pay a certain number of cyber-dollars (the exact
    value of the payment will be determined at the end of our analysis). We distinguish
    three cases:
        • If the payment is equal to the splaying work, then we use it all to pay for the
           splaying.
        • If the payment is greater than the splaying work, we deposit the excess in the
           accounts of several nodes.
        • If the payment is less than the splaying work, we make withdrawals from the
           accounts of several nodes to cover the deﬁciency.
    We show below that a payment of O(log n) cyber-dollars per operation is sufﬁcient
    to keep the system working, that is, to ensure that each node keeps a nonnegative
    account balance.
    An Accounting Invariant for Splaying
    We use a scheme in which transfers are made between the accounts of the nodes
    to ensure that there will always be enough cyber-dollars to withdraw for paying for
    splaying work when needed.
        In order to use the accounting method to perform our analysis of splaying, we
    maintain the following invariant:
           Before and after a splaying, each node w of T has r(w) cyber-dollars
           in its account.
    Note that the invariant is “ﬁnancially sound,” since it does not require us to make a
    preliminary deposit to endow a tree with zero keys.
        Let r(T ) be the sum of the ranks of all the nodes of T . To preserve the invariant
    after a splaying, we must make a payment equal to the splaying work plus the total
    change in r(T ). We refer to a single zig, zig-zig, or zig-zag operation in a splaying
    as a splaying substep. Also, we denote the rank of a node w of T before and after
    a splaying substep with r(w) and r (w), respectively. The following proposition
    gives an upper bound on the change of r(T ) caused by a single splaying substep.
    We will repeatedly use this lemma in our analysis of a full splaying of a node to the
    root.
