502                                                                     Chapter 11. Search Trees
 11.5     (2,4) Trees
       In this section, we consider a data structure known as a (2,4) tree. It is a particular
       example of a more general structure known as a multiway search tree, in which
       internal nodes may have more than two children. Other forms of multiway search
       trees will be discussed in Section 15.3.
    11.5.1 Multiway Search Trees
       Recall that general trees are deﬁned so that internal nodes may have many children.
       In this section, we discuss how general trees can be used as multiway search trees.
       Map items stored in a search tree are pairs of the form (k, v), where k is the key and
       v is the value associated with the key.
       Deﬁnition of a Multiway Search Tree
       Let w be a node of an ordered tree. We say that w is a d-node if w has d children.
       We deﬁne a multiway search tree to be an ordered tree T that has the following
       properties, which are illustrated in Figure 11.23a:
            • Each internal node of T has at least two children. That is, each internal node
              is a d-node such that d ≥ 2.
            • Each internal d-node w of T with children c1 , . . . , cd stores an ordered set of
              d − 1 key-value pairs (k1 , v1 ), . . ., (kd−1 , vd−1 ), where k1 ≤ · · · ≤ kd−1 .
            • Let us conventionally deﬁne k0 = −∞ and kd = +∞. For each item (k, v)
              stored at a node in the subtree of w rooted at ci , i = 1, . . . , d, we have that
              ki−1 ≤ k ≤ ki .
       That is, if we think of the set of keys stored at w as including the special ﬁctitious
       keys k0 = −∞ and kd = +∞, then a key k stored in the subtree of T rooted at a
       child node ci must be “in between” two keys stored at w. This simple viewpoint
       gives rise to the rule that a d-node stores d − 1 regular keys, and it also forms the
       basis of the algorithm for searching in a multiway search tree.
            By the above deﬁnition, the external nodes of a multiway search do not store
       any data and serve only as “placeholders.” These external nodes can be efﬁciently
       represented by None references, as has been our convention with binary search
       trees (Section 11.1). However, for the sake of exposition, we will discuss these
       as actual nodes that do not store anything. Based on this deﬁnition, there is an
       interesting relationship between the number of key-value pairs and the number of
       external nodes in a multiway search tree.
       Proposition 11.7: An n-item multiway search tree has n + 1 external nodes.
            We leave the justiﬁcation of this proposition as an exercise (C-11.52).
