520                                                            Chapter 11. Search Trees
        We consider three possible cases to remedy a deﬁcit.
    Case 1: Node y Is Black and Has a Red Child x. (See Figure 11.38.)
           We perform a trinode restructuring, as originally described in Section 11.2.
           The operation restructure(x) takes the node x, its parent y, and grandparent
           z, labels them temporarily left to right as a, b, and c, and replaces z with the
           node labeled b, making it the parent of the other two. We color a and c black,
           and give b the former color of z.
           Notice that the path to Tlight in the result includes one additional black node
           after the restructure, thereby resolving its deﬁcit. In contrast, the number
           of black nodes on paths to any of the other three subtrees illustrated in Fig-
           ure 11.38 remains unchanged.
           Resolving this case corresponds to a transfer operation in the (2, 4) tree T 
           between the two children of the node with z. The fact that y has a red child
           assures us that it represents either a 3-node or a 4-node. In effect, the item
           previously stored at z is demoted to become a new 2-node to resolve the
           deﬁciency, while an item stored at y or its child is promoted to take the place
           of the item previously stored at z.
                       z                                                     x
        y               30                                        y        20        z
          10       x                                                10            30
                  20
                                    Tlight
                                                                                      Tlight
                         z                                                    y
                 y        30                                       x       20        z
         x        20                                                10             30
          10
                                     Tlight
                                                                                       Tlight
    Figure 11.38: Resolving a black deﬁcit in Tlight by performing a trinode restructuring
    as restructure(x). Two possible conﬁgurations are shown (two other conﬁgurations
    are symmetric). The gray color of z in the left ﬁgures denotes the fact that this node
    may be colored either red or black. The root of the restructured portion is given
    that same color, while the children of that node are both colored black in the result.
