522                                                            Chapter 11. Search Trees
    Case 3: Node y Is Red. (See Figure 11.40.)
           Because y is red and Theavy has black depth at least 1, z must be black and the
           two subtrees of y must each have a black root and a black depth equal to that
           of Theavy . In this case, we perform a rotation about y and z, and then recolor y
           black and z red. This denotes a reorientation of a 3-node in the corresponding
           (2, 4) tree T  .
           This does not immediately resolve the deﬁcit, as the new subtree of z is an old
           subtree of y with black root y and black height equal to that of the original
           Theavy . We reapply the algorithm to resolve the deﬁcit at z, knowing that the
           new child y , that is the root of Theavy is now black, and therefore that either
           Case 1 applies or Case 2 applies. Furthermore, the next application will be
           the last, because Case 1 is always terminal and Case 2 will be terminal given
           that z is red.
                      z                                                  y
             y         30                                             20        z
              20                                                              30
                                                                      y
                              Tlight
            Theavy                                                   Theavy         Tlight
    Figure 11.40: A rotation and recoloring about red node y and black node z, assuming
    a black deﬁcit at z. This amounts to a change of orientation in the corresponding
    3-node of a (2, 4) tree. This operation does not affect the black depth of any paths
    through this portion of the tree. Furthermore, because y was originally red, the
    new subtree of z must have a black root y and must have black height equal to the
    original Theavy . Therefore, a black deﬁcit remains at node z after the transformation.
        In Figure 11.41, we show a sequence of deletions on a red-black tree. A dashed
    edge in those ﬁgures, such as to the right of 7 in part (c), represents a branch with a
    black deﬁciency that has not yet been resolved. We illustrate a Case 1 restructuring
    in parts (c) and (d). We illustrate a Case 2 recoloring in parts (f ) and (g). Finally,
    we show an example of a Case 3 rotation between parts (i) and (j), concluding with
    a Case 2 recoloring in part (k).
