12.1. Why Study Sorting Algorithms?                                                                      537
 12.1       Why Study Sorting Algorithms?
         Much of this chapter focuses on algorithms for sorting a collection of objects.
         Given a collection, the goal is to rearrange the elements so that they are ordered
         from smallest to largest (or to produce a new copy of the sequence with such an
         order). As we did when studying priority queues (see Section 9.4), we assume that
         such a consistent order exists. In Python, the natural order of objects is typically1
         deﬁned using the < operator having following properties:
               • Irreﬂexive property: k < k.
               • Transitive property: if k1 < k2 and k2 < k3 , then k1 < k3 .
         The transitive property is important as it allows us to infer the outcome of certain
         comparisons without taking the time to perform those comparisons, thereby leading
         to more efﬁcient algorithms.
               Sorting is among the most important, and well studied, of computing problems.
         Data sets are often stored in sorted order, for example, to allow for efﬁcient searches
         with the binary search algorithm (see Section 4.1.3). Many advanced algorithms
         for a variety of problems rely on sorting as a subroutine.
               Python has built-in support for sorting data, in the form of the sort method of
         the list class that rearranges the contents of a list, and the built-in sorted function
         that produces a new list containing the elements of an arbitrary collection in sorted
         order. Those built-in functions use advanced algorithms (some of which we will
         describe in this chapter), and they are highly optimized. A programmer should
         typically rely on calls to the built-in sorting functions, as it is rare to have a special
         enough circumstance to warrant implementing a sorting algorithm from scratch.
               With that said, it remains important to have a deep understanding of sorting
         algorithms. Most immediately, when calling the built-in function, it is good to
         know what to expect in terms of efﬁciency and how that may depend upon the
         initial order of elements or the type of objects that are being sorted. More generally,
         the ideas and approaches that have led to advances in the development of sorting
         algorithm carry over to algorithm development in many other areas of computing.
               We have introduced several sorting algorithms already in this book:
               • Insertion-sort (see Sections 5.5.2, 7.5, and 9.4.1)
               • Selection-sort (see Section 9.4.1)
               • Bubble-sort (see Exercise C-7.38)
               • Heap-sort (see Section 9.4.2)
               In this chapter, we present four other sorting algorithms, called merge-sort,
         quick-sort, bucket-sort, and radix-sort, and then discuss the advantages and disad-
         vantages of the various algorithms in Section 12.5.
             1
               In Section 12.6.1, we will explore another technique used in Python for sorting data according
         to an order other than the natural order deﬁned by the < operator.
