538                                                       Chapter 12. Sorting and Selection
 12.2     Merge-Sort
    12.2.1 Divide-and-Conquer
       The ﬁrst two algorithms we describe in this chapter, merge-sort and quick-sort, use
       recursion in an algorithmic design pattern called divide-and-conquer. We have
       already seen the power of recursion in describing algorithms in an elegant manner
       (see Chapter 4). The divide-and-conquer pattern consists of the following three
       steps:
           1. Divide: If the input size is smaller than a certain threshold (say, one or two
              elements), solve the problem directly using a straightforward method and
              return the solution so obtained. Otherwise, divide the input data into two or
              more disjoint subsets.
           2. Conquer: Recursively solve the subproblems associated with the subsets.
           3. Combine: Take the solutions to the subproblems and merge them into a so-
              lution to the original problem.
       Using Divide-and-Conquer for Sorting
       We will ﬁrst describe the merge-sort algorithm at a high level, without focusing on
       whether the data is an array-based (Python) list or a linked list; we will soon give
       concrete implementations for each. To sort a sequence S with n elements using the
       three divide-and-conquer steps, the merge-sort algorithm proceeds as follows:
           1. Divide: If S has zero or one element, return S immediately; it is already
              sorted. Otherwise (S has at least two elements), remove all the elements
              from S and put them into two sequences, S1 and S2 , each containing about
              half of the elements of S; that is, S1 contains the ﬁrst n/2 elements of S,
              and S2 contains the remaining n/2 elements.
           2. Conquer: Recursively sort sequences S1 and S2 .
           3. Combine: Put back the elements into S by merging the sorted sequences S1
              and S2 into a sorted sequence.
       In reference to the divide step, we recall that the notation x indicates the ﬂoor of
       x, that is, the largest integer k, such that k ≤ x. Similarly, the notation x indicates
       the ceiling of x, that is, the smallest integer m, such that x ≤ m.
