12.2. Merge-Sort                                                                             545
              A merge-sort tree T , as portrayed in Figures 12.2 through 12.4, can guide our
         analysis. Consider a recursive call associated with a node v of the merge-sort tree T .
         The divide step at node v is straightforward; this step runs in time proportional to
         the size of the sequence for v, based on the use of slicing to create copies of the two
         list halves. We have already observed that the merging step also takes time that is
         linear in the size of the merged sequence. If we let i denote the depth of node v,
         the time spent at node v is O(n/2i ), since the size of the sequence handled by the
         recursive call associated with v is equal to n/2i .
              Looking at the tree T more globally, as shown in Figure 12.6, we see that, given
         our deﬁnition of “time spent at a node,” the running time of merge-sort is equal to
         the sum of the times spent at the nodes of T . Observe that T has exactly 2i nodes at
         depth i. This simple observation has an important consequence, for it implies that
         the overall time spent at all the nodes of T at depth i is O(2i · n/2i ), which is O(n).
         By Proposition 12.1, the height of T is log n. Thus, since the time spent at each
         of the log n + 1 levels of T is O(n), we have the following result:
         Proposition 12.2: Algorithm merge-sort sorts a sequence S of size n in O(n log n)
         time, assuming two elements of S can be compared in O(1) time.
                    Height                                                Time per level
                                                   n                          O(n)
                                           n/2            n/2                 O(n)
                    O(log n)
                                      n/4      n/4   n/4      n/4             O(n)
                                                                Total time: O(n log n)
         Figure 12.6: A visual analysis of the running time of merge-sort. Each node rep-
         resents the time spent in a particular recursive call, labeled with the size of its
         subproblem.
