13.5. Tries                                                                                     605
                                   b                                            s
                      e            i           u                       e                  t
                 a          l      d      l          y                 l                  o
                 r          l             l                            l            c         p
                                                                                    k
           Figure 13.10: Standard trie for the strings {bear, bell, bid, bull, buy, sell, stock,
           stop}.
           of a string X of S. In fact, for each character c that can follow the preﬁx X [0 : k] in
           a string of the set S, there is a child of v labeled with character c. In this way, a trie
           concisely stores the common preﬁxes that exist among a set of strings.
                As a special case, if there are only two characters in the alphabet, then the
           trie is essentially a binary tree, with some internal nodes possibly having only one
           child (that is, it may be an improper binary tree). In general, although it is possible
           that an internal node has up to |Σ| children, in practice the average degree of such
           nodes is likely to be much smaller. For example, the trie shown in Figure 13.10 has
           several internal nodes with only one child. On larger data sets, the average degree
           of nodes is likely to get smaller at greater depths of the tree, because there may
           be fewer strings sharing the common preﬁx, and thus fewer continuations of that
           pattern. Furthermore, in many languages, there will be character combinations that
           are unlikely to naturally occur.
                The following proposition provides some important structural properties of a
           standard trie:
           Proposition 13.6: A standard trie storing a collection S of s strings of total length
           n from an alphabet Σ has the following properties:
                •  The height of T is equal to the length of the longest string in S.
                •  Every internal node of T has at most |Σ| children.
                •  T has s leaves
                •  The number of nodes of T is at most n + 1.
                The worst case for the number of nodes of a trie occurs when no two strings
           share a common nonempty preﬁx; that is, except for the root, all internal nodes
           have one child.
