608                                                                           Chapter 13. Text Processing
    13.5.2 Compressed Tries
       A compressed trie is similar to a standard trie but it ensures that each internal node
       in the trie has at least two children. It enforces this rule by compressing chains of
       single-child nodes into individual edges. (See Figure 13.12.) Let T be a standard
       trie. We say that an internal node v of T is redundant if v has one child and is not
       the root. For example, the trie of Figure 13.10 has eight redundant nodes. Let us
       also say that a chain of k ≥ 2 edges,
                                           (v0 , v1 )(v1 , v2 ) · · · (vk−1 , vk ),
       is redundant if:
            • vi is redundant for i = 1, . . . , k − 1.
            • v0 and vk are not redundant.
       We can transform T into a compressed trie by replacing each redundant chain
       (v0 , v1 ) · · · (vk−1 , vk ) of k ≥ 2 edges into a single edge (v0 , vk ), relabeling vk with
       the concatenation of the labels of nodes v1 , . . . , vk .
                                      b                                                 s
                       e             id           u                               ell          to
              ar            ll             ll            y                                 ck       p
       Figure 13.12: Compressed trie for the strings {bear, bell, bid, bull, buy, sell, stock,
       stop}. (Compare this with the standard trie shown in Figure 13.10.) In addition to
       compression at the leaves, notice the internal node with label to shared by words
       stock and stop.
            Thus, nodes in a compressed trie are labeled with strings, which are substrings
       of strings in the collection, rather than with individual characters. The advantage of
       a compressed trie over a standard trie is that the number of nodes of the compressed
       trie is proportional to the number of strings and not to their total length, as shown
       in the following proposition (compare with Proposition 13.6).
       Proposition 13.7: A compressed trie storing a collection S of s strings from an
       alphabet of size d has the following properties:
            • Every internal node of T has at least two children and most d children.
            • T has s leaves nodes.
            • The number of nodes of T is O(s).
