13.6. Exercises                                                                                 615
          C-13.26 Modify the simpliﬁed Boyer-Moore algorithm presented in this chapter
                  using ideas from the KMP algorithm so that it runs in O(n + m) time.
          C-13.27 Design an efﬁcient algorithm for the matrix chain multiplication problem
                  that outputs a fully parenthesized expression for how to multiply the ma-
                  trices in the chain using the minimum number of operations.
          C-13.28 A native Australian named Anatjari wishes to cross a desert carrying only
                  a single water bottle. He has a map that marks all the watering holes along
                  the way. Assuming he can walk k miles on one bottle of water, design an
                  efﬁcient algorithm for determining where Anatjari should reﬁll his bottle
                  in order to make as few stops as possible. Argue why your algorithm is
                  correct.
          C-13.29 Describe an efﬁcient greedy algorithm for making change for a speciﬁed
                  value using a minimum number of coins, assuming there are four denomi-
                  nations of coins (called quarters, dimes, nickels, and pennies), with values
                  25, 10, 5, and 1, respectively. Argue why your algorithm is correct.
          C-13.30 Give an example set of denominations of coins so that a greedy change-
                  making algorithm will not use the minimum number of coins.
          C-13.31 In the art gallery guarding problem we are given a line L that repre-
                  sents a long hallway in an art gallery. We are also given a set X =
                  {x0 , x1 , . . . , xn−1 } of real numbers that specify the positions of paintings
                  in this hallway. Suppose that a single guard can protect all the paintings
                  within distance at most 1 of his or her position (on both sides). Design
                  an algorithm for ﬁnding a placement of guards that uses the minimum
                  number of guards to guard all the paintings with positions in X .
          C-13.32 Let P be a convex polygon, a triangulation of P is an addition of diag-
                  onals connecting the vertices of P so that each interior face is a triangle.
                  The weight of a triangulation is the sum of the lengths of the diagonals.
                  Assuming that we can compute lengths and add and compare them in con-
                  stant time, give an efﬁcient algorithm for computing a minimum-weight
                  triangulation of P.
          C-13.33 Let T be a text string of length n. Describe an O(n)-time method for
                  ﬁnding the longest preﬁx of T that is a substring of the reversal of T .
          C-13.34 Describe an efﬁcient algorithm to ﬁnd the longest palindrome that is a
                  sufﬁx of a string T of length n. Recall that a palindrome is a string that is
                  equal to its reversal. What is the running time of your method?
          C-13.35 Given a sequence S = (x0 , x1 , . . . , xn−1 ) of numbers, describe an O(n2 )-
                  time algorithm for ﬁnding a longest subsequence T = (xi0 , xi1 , . . . , xik−1 )
                  of numbers, such that i j < i j+1 and xi j > xi j+1 . That is, T is a longest
                  decreasing subsequence of S.
          C-13.36 Give an efﬁcient algorithm for determining if a pattern P is a subsequence
                  (not substring) of a text T . What is the running time of your algorithm?
