620                                                          Chapter 14. Graph Algorithms
 14.1   Graphs
      A graph is a way of representing relationships that exist between pairs of objects.
      That is, a graph is a set of objects, called vertices, together with a collection of
      pairwise connections between them, called edges. Graphs have applications in
      modeling many domains, including mapping, transportation, computer networks,
      and electrical engineering. By the way, this notion of a “graph” should not be
      confused with bar charts and function plots, as these kinds of “graphs” are unrelated
      to the topic of this chapter.
           Viewed abstractly, a graph G is simply a set V of vertices and a collection E
      of pairs of vertices from V , called edges. Thus, a graph is a way of representing
      connections or relationships between pairs of objects from some set V . Incidentally,
      some books use different terminology for graphs and refer to what we call vertices
      as nodes and what we call edges as arcs. We use the terms “vertices” and “edges.”
           Edges in a graph are either directed or undirected. An edge (u, v) is said to
      be directed from u to v if the pair (u, v) is ordered, with u preceding v. An edge
      (u, v) is said to be undirected if the pair (u, v) is not ordered. Undirected edges are
      sometimes denoted with set notation, as {u, v}, but for simplicity we use the pair
      notation (u, v), noting that in the undirected case (u, v) is the same as (v, u). Graphs
      are typically visualized by drawing the vertices as ovals or rectangles and the edges
      as segments or curves connecting pairs of ovals and rectangles. The following are
      some examples of directed and undirected graphs.
      Example 14.1: We can visualize collaborations among the researchers of a cer-
      tain discipline by constructing a graph whose vertices are associated with the re-
      searchers themselves, and whose edges connect pairs of vertices associated with
      researchers who have coauthored a paper or book. (See Figure 14.1.) Such edges
      are undirected because coauthorship is a symmetric relation; that is, if A has coau-
      thored something with B, then B necessarily has coauthored something with A.
                           Snoeyink       Garg
                                        Goldwasser
                           Goodrich                    Tamassia
                                          Tollis
                                          Vitter       Preparata      Chiang
                     Figure 14.1: Graph of coauthorship among some authors.
