14.1. Graphs                                                                                   621
          Example 14.2: We can associate with an object-oriented program a graph whose
          vertices represent the classes deﬁned in the program, and whose edges indicate
          inheritance between classes. There is an edge from a vertex v to a vertex u if
          the class for v inherits from the class for u. Such edges are directed because the
          inheritance relation only goes in one direction (that is, it is asymmetric).
               If all the edges in a graph are undirected, then we say the graph is an undirected
          graph. Likewise, a directed graph, also called a digraph, is a graph whose edges
          are all directed. A graph that has both directed and undirected edges is often called
          a mixed graph. Note that an undirected or mixed graph can be converted into a
          directed graph by replacing every undirected edge (u, v) by the pair of directed
          edges (u, v) and (v, u). It is often useful, however, to keep undirected and mixed
          graphs represented as they are, for such graphs have several applications, as in the
          following example.
          Example 14.3: A city map can be modeled as a graph whose vertices are intersec-
          tions or dead ends, and whose edges are stretches of streets without intersections.
          This graph has both undirected edges, which correspond to stretches of two-way
          streets, and directed edges, which correspond to stretches of one-way streets. Thus,
          in this way, a graph modeling a city map is a mixed graph.
          Example 14.4: Physical examples of graphs are present in the electrical wiring
          and plumbing networks of a building. Such networks can be modeled as graphs,
          where each connector, ﬁxture, or outlet is viewed as a vertex, and each uninter-
          rupted stretch of wire or pipe is viewed as an edge. Such graphs are actually com-
          ponents of much larger graphs, namely the local power and water distribution net-
          works. Depending on the speciﬁc aspects of these graphs that we are interested in,
          we may consider their edges as undirected or directed, for, in principle, water can
          ﬂow in a pipe and current can ﬂow in a wire in either direction.
               The two vertices joined by an edge are called the end vertices (or endpoints)
          of the edge. If an edge is directed, its ﬁrst endpoint is its origin and the other is the
          destination of the edge. Two vertices u and v are said to be adjacent if there is an
          edge whose end vertices are u and v. An edge is said to be incident to a vertex if
          the vertex is one of the edge’s endpoints. The outgoing edges of a vertex are the
          directed edges whose origin is that vertex. The incoming edges of a vertex are the
          directed edges whose destination is that vertex. The degree of a vertex v, denoted
          deg(v), is the number of incident edges of v. The in-degree and out-degree of a
          vertex v are the number of the incoming and outgoing edges of v, and are denoted
          indeg(v) and outdeg(v), respectively.
