622                                                                  Chapter 14. Graph Algorithms
      Example 14.5: We can study air transportation by constructing a graph G, called
      a ﬂight network, whose vertices are associated with airports, and whose edges
      are associated with ﬂights. (See Figure 14.2.) In graph G, the edges are directed
      because a given ﬂight has a speciﬁc travel direction. The endpoints of an edge e in
      G correspond respectively to the origin and destination of the ﬂight corresponding
      to e. Two airports are adjacent in G if there is a ﬂight that ﬂies between them,
      and an edge e is incident to a vertex v in G if the ﬂight for e ﬂies to or from the
      airport for v. The outgoing edges of a vertex v correspond to the outbound ﬂights
      from v’s airport, and the incoming edges correspond to the inbound ﬂights to v’s
      airport. Finally, the in-degree of a vertex v of G corresponds to the number of
      inbound ﬂights to v’s airport, and the out-degree of a vertex v in G corresponds to
      the number of outbound ﬂights.
                                                         SW 45                             BOS
                                                                                  35
                                                          ORD                    NW
                                                                                 JFK
                                                UA 8
                                                    77      DL 3
                                                                                             DL 247
                                            0
                                          12                                87
                                                                35
                           SFO
                                                                          13
                                     UA                              AA
                                                                                  AA 903
                                                 DFW
                            LAX      AA 49
                                                                 AA
                                                                    523
                                                AA 411                           MIA
      Figure 14.2: Example of a directed graph representing a ﬂight network. The end-
      points of edge UA 120 are LAX and ORD; hence, LAX and ORD are adjacent.
      The in-degree of DFW is 3, and the out-degree of DFW is 2.
           The deﬁnition of a graph refers to the group of edges as a collection, not a
      set, thus allowing two undirected edges to have the same end vertices, and for two
      directed edges to have the same origin and the same destination. Such edges are
      called parallel edges or multiple edges. A ﬂight network can contain parallel edges
      (Example 14.5), such that multiple edges between the same pair of vertices could
      indicate different ﬂights operating on the same route at different times of the day.
      Another special type of edge is one that connects a vertex to itself. Namely, we say
      that an edge (undirected or directed) is a self-loop if its two endpoints coincide. A
      self-loop may occur in a graph associated with a city map (Example 14.3), where
      it would correspond to a “circle” (a curving street that returns to its starting point).
           With few exceptions, graphs do not have parallel edges or self-loops. Such
      graphs are said to be simple. Thus, we can usually say that the edges of a simple
      graph are a set of vertex pairs (and not just a collection). Throughout this chapter,
      we assume that a graph is simple unless otherwise speciﬁed.
