14.1. Graphs                                                                                   623
               A path is a sequence of alternating vertices and edges that starts at a vertex and
          ends at a vertex such that each edge is incident to its predecessor and successor
          vertex. A cycle is a path that starts and ends at the same vertex, and that includes at
          least one edge. We say that a path is simple if each vertex in the path is distinct, and
          we say that a cycle is simple if each vertex in the cycle is distinct, except for the
          ﬁrst and last one. A directed path is a path such that all edges are directed and are
          traversed along their direction. A directed cycle is similarly deﬁned. For example,
          in Figure 14.2, (BOS, NW 35, JFK, AA 1387, DFW) is a directed simple path, and
          (LAX, UA 120, ORD, UA 877, DFW, AA 49, LAX) is a directed simple cycle.
          Note that a directed graph may have a cycle consisting of two edges with opposite
          direction between the same pair of vertices, for example (ORD, UA 877, DFW,
          DL 335, ORD) in Figure 14.2. A directed graph is acyclic if it has no directed
          cycles. For example, if we were to remove the edge UA 877 from the graph in
          Figure 14.2, the remaining graph is acyclic. If a graph is simple, we may omit the
          edges when describing path P or cycle C, as these are well deﬁned, in which case
          P is a list of adjacent vertices and C is a cycle of adjacent vertices.
          Example 14.6: Given a graph G representing a city map (see Example 14.3), we
          can model a couple driving to dinner at a recommended restaurant as traversing a
          path though G. If they know the way, and do not accidentally go through the same
          intersection twice, then they traverse a simple path in G. Likewise, we can model
          the entire trip the couple takes, from their home to the restaurant and back, as a
          cycle. If they go home from the restaurant in a completely different way than how
          they went, not even going through the same intersection twice, then their entire
          round trip is a simple cycle. Finally, if they travel along one-way streets for their
          entire trip, we can model their night out as a directed cycle.
               Given vertices u and v of a (directed) graph G, we say that u reaches v, and
          that v is reachable from u, if G has a (directed) path from u to v. In an undirected
          graph, the notion of reachability is symmetric, that is to say, u reaches v if an only
          if v reaches u. However, in a directed graph, it is possible that u reaches v but v does
          not reach u, because a directed path must be traversed according to the respective
          directions of the edges. A graph is connected if, for any two vertices, there is a path
          between them. A directed graph G     is strongly connected if for any two vertices u
                    
          and v of G, u reaches v and v reaches u. (See Figure 14.3 for some examples.)
               A subgraph of a graph G is a graph H whose vertices and edges are subsets of
          the vertices and edges of G, respectively. A spanning subgraph of G is a subgraph
          of G that contains all the vertices of the graph G. If a graph G is not connected,
          its maximal connected subgraphs are called the connected components of G. A
          forest is a graph without cycles. A tree is a connected forest, that is, a connected
          graph without cycles. A spanning tree of a graph is a spanning subgraph that is a
          tree. (Note that this deﬁnition of a tree is somewhat different from the one given in
          Chapter 8, as there is not necessarily a designated root.)
