640                                                      Chapter 14. Graph Algorithms
    Classifying Graph Edges with DFS
    An execution of depth-ﬁrst search can be used to analyze the structure of a graph,
    based upon the way in which edges are explored during the traversal. The DFS
    process naturally identiﬁes what is known as the depth-ﬁrst search tree rooted at
    a starting vertex s. Whenever an edge e = (u, v) is used to discover a new vertex v
    during the DFS algorithm of Code Fragment 14.4, that edge is known as a discovery
    edge or tree edge, as oriented from u to v. All other edges that are considered during
    the execution of DFS are known as nontree edges, which take us to a previously
    visited vertex. In the case of an undirected graph, we will ﬁnd that all nontree edges
    that are explored connect the current vertex to one that is an ancestor of it in the
    DFS tree. We will call such an edge a back edge. When performing a DFS on a
    directed graph, there are three possible kinds of nontree edges:
         • back edges, which connect a vertex to an ancestor in the DFS tree
         • forward edges, which connect a vertex to a descendant in the DFS tree
         • cross edges, which connect a vertex to a vertex that is neither its ancestor nor
           its descendant.
         An example application of the DFS algorithm on a directed graph is shown in
    Figure 14.8, demonstrating each type of nontree edge. An example application of
    the DFS algorithm on an undirected graph is shown in Figure 14.9.
                                                                                          1
                                         BOS                                          BOS
                                                                      ORD  5
                         ORD
                                                                                  JFK
                                     JFK         7                                      2
     SFO                                           SFO
                                                                 DFW
                     DFW
       LAX                                           LAX
                                                                  3
                                                   4
                                    MIA                                          MIA
                                                                                       6
                       (a)                                         (b)
    Figure 14.8: An example of a DFS in a directed graph, starting at vertex (BOS):
    (a) intermediate step, where, for the ﬁrst time, a considered edge leads to an al-
    ready visited vertex (DFW); (b) the completed DFS. The tree edges are shown
    with thick lines, the back edges are shown with dashed lines, and the forward and
    cross edges are shown with dotted lines. The order in which the vertices are vis-
    ited is indicated by a label next to each vertex. The edge (ORD,DFW) is a back
    edge, but (DFW,ORD) is a forward edge. Edge (BOS,SFO) is a forward edge, and
    (SFO,LAX) is a cross edge.
