14.7. Minimum Spanning Trees                                                               671
          A Crucial Fact about Minimum Spanning Trees
          The two MST algorithms we discuss are based on the greedy method, which in this
          case depends crucially on the following fact. (See Figure 14.19.)
                               e Belongs to a Minimum Spanning Tree
                                                    e
                               V1                                         V2
                                               min-weight
                                             “bridge” edge
             Figure 14.19: An illustration of the crucial fact about minimum spanning trees.
          Proposition 14.25: Let G be a weighted connected graph, and let V1 and V2 be a
          partition of the vertices of G into two disjoint nonempty sets. Furthermore, let e be
          an edge in G with minimum weight from among those with one endpoint in V1 and
          the other in V2 . There is a minimum spanning tree T that has e as one of its edges.
          Justiﬁcation: Let T be a minimum spanning tree of G. If T does not contain
          edge e, the addition of e to T must create a cycle. Therefore, there is some edge
           f = e of this cycle that has one endpoint in V1 and the other in V2 . Moreover, by
          the choice of e, w(e) ≤ w( f ). If we remove f from T ∪ {e}, we obtain a spanning
          tree whose total weight is no more than before. Since T was a minimum spanning
          tree, this new tree must also be a minimum spanning tree.
               In fact, if the weights in G are distinct, then the minimum spanning tree is
          unique; we leave the justiﬁcation of this less crucial fact as an exercise (C-14.65).
          In addition, note that Proposition 14.25 remains valid even if the graph G con-
          tains negative-weight edges or negative-weight cycles, unlike the algorithms we
          presented for shortest paths.
