14.8. Exercises                                                                             693
          C-14.66 An old MST method, called Barůvka’s algorithm, works as follows on a
                  graph G having n vertices and m edges with distinct weights:
                       Let T be a subgraph of G initially containing just the vertices in V .
                       while T has fewer than n − 1 edges do
                          for each connected component Ci of T do
                            Find the lowest-weight edge (u, v) in E with u in Ci and v not in
                            Ci .
                            Add (u, v) to T (unless it is already in T ).
                       return T
                  Prove that this algorithm is correct and that it runs in O(m log n) time.
          C-14.67 Let G be a graph with n vertices and m edges such that all the edge weights
                  in G are integers in the range [1, n]. Give an algorithm for ﬁnding a mini-
                  mum spanning tree for G in O(m log∗ n) time.
          C-14.68 Consider a diagram of a telephone network, which is a graph G whose ver-
                  tices represent switching centers, and whose edges represent communica-
                  tion lines joining pairs of centers. Edges are marked by their bandwidth,
                  and the bandwidth of a path is equal to the lowest bandwidth among the
                  path’s edges. Give an algorithm that, given a network and two switch-
                  ing centers a and b, outputs the maximum bandwidth of a path between a
                  and b.
          C-14.69 NASA wants to link n stations spread over the country using communica-
                  tion channels. Each pair of stations has a different bandwidth available,
                  which is known a priori. NASA wants to select n − 1 channels (the mini-
                  mum possible) in such a way that all the stations are linked by the channels
                  and the total bandwidth (deﬁned as the sum of the individual bandwidths
                  of the channels) is maximum. Give an efﬁcient algorithm for this prob-
                  lem and determine its worst-case time complexity. Consider the weighted
                  graph G = (V, E), where V is the set of stations and E is the set of chan-
                  nels between the stations. Deﬁne the weight w(e) of an edge e in E as the
                  bandwidth of the corresponding channel.
          C-14.70 Inside the Castle of Asymptopia there is a maze, and along each corridor
                  of the maze there is a bag of gold coins. The amount of gold in each
                  bag varies. A noble knight, named Sir Paul, will be given the opportunity
                  to walk through the maze, picking up bags of gold. He may enter the
                  maze only through a door marked “ENTER” and exit through another
                  door marked “EXIT.” While in the maze he may not retrace his steps.
                  Each corridor of the maze has an arrow painted on the wall. Sir Paul may
                  only go down the corridor in the direction of the arrow. There is no way
                  to traverse a “loop” in the maze. Given a map of the maze, including the
                  amount of gold in each corridor, describe an algorithm to help Sir Paul
                  pick up the most gold.
