1.12. Exercises                                                                                 51
  1.12      Exercises
          For help with exercises, please visit the site, www.wiley.com/college/goodrich.
       Reinforcement
            R-1.1 Write a short Python function, is multiple(n, m), that takes two integer
                    values and returns True if n is a multiple of m, that is, n = mi for some
                    integer i, and False otherwise.
            R-1.2 Write a short Python function, is even(k), that takes an integer value and
                    returns True if k is even, and False otherwise. However, your function
                    cannot use the multiplication, modulo, or division operators.
            R-1.3 Write a short Python function, minmax(data), that takes a sequence of
                    one or more numbers, and returns the smallest and largest numbers, in the
                    form of a tuple of length two. Do not use the built-in functions min or
                    max in implementing your solution.
            R-1.4 Write a short Python function that takes a positive integer n and returns
                    the sum of the squares of all the positive integers smaller than n.
            R-1.5 Give a single command that computes the sum from Exercise R-1.4, rely-
                    ing on Python’s comprehension syntax and the built-in sum function.
            R-1.6 Write a short Python function that takes a positive integer n and returns
                    the sum of the squares of all the odd positive integers smaller than n.
            R-1.7 Give a single command that computes the sum from Exercise R-1.6, rely-
                    ing on Python’s comprehension syntax and the built-in sum function.
            R-1.8 Python allows negative integers to be used as indices into a sequence,
                    such as a string. If string s has length n, and expression s[k] is used for in-
                    dex −n ≤ k < 0, what is the equivalent index j ≥ 0 such that s[j] references
                    the same element?
            R-1.9 What parameters should be sent to the range constructor, to produce a
                    range with values 50, 60, 70, 80?
           R-1.10 What parameters should be sent to the range constructor, to produce a
                    range with values 8, 6, 4, 2, 0, −2, −4, −6, −8?
           R-1.11 Demonstrate how to use Python’s list comprehension syntax to produce
                    the list [1, 2, 4, 8, 16, 32, 64, 128, 256].
           R-1.12 Python’s random module includes a function choice(data) that returns a
                    random element from a non-empty sequence. The random module in-
                    cludes a more basic function randrange, with parameterization similar to
                    the built-in range function, that return a random choice from the given
                    range. Using only the randrange function, implement your own version
                    of the choice function.
