15.2. Memory Hierarchies and Caching                                                        705
 15.2       Memory Hierarchies and Caching
         With the increased use of computing in society, software applications must man-
         age extremely large data sets. Such applications include the processing of online
         ﬁnancial transactions, the organization and maintenance of databases, and analy-
         ses of customers’ purchasing histories and preferences. The amount of data can be
         so large that the overall performance of algorithms and data structures sometimes
         depends more on the time to access the data than on the speed of the CPU.
      15.2.1 Memory Systems
         In order to accommodate large data sets, computers have a hierarchy of differ-
         ent kinds of memories, which vary in terms of their size and distance from the
         CPU. Closest to the CPU are the internal registers that the CPU itself uses. Ac-
         cess to such locations is very fast, but there are relatively few such locations. At
         the second level in the hierarchy are one or more memory caches. This memory
         is considerably larger than the register set of a CPU, but accessing it takes longer.
         At the third level in the hierarchy is the internal memory, which is also known as
         main memory or core memory. The internal memory is considerably larger than
         the cache memory, but also requires more time to access. Another level in the hi-
         erarchy is the external memory, which usually consists of disks, CD drives, DVD
         drives, and/or tapes. This memory is very large, but it is also very slow. Data stored
         through an external network can be viewed as yet another level in this hierarchy,
         with even greater storage capacity, but even slower access. Thus, the memory hi-
         erarchy for computers can be viewed as consisting of ﬁve or more levels, each of
         which is larger and slower than the previous level. (See Figure 15.1.) During the
         execution of a program, data is routinely copied from one level of the hierarchy to
         a neighboring level, and these transfers can become a computational bottleneck.
                                          Network Storage                       Faster
                                          External Memory
                                          Internal Memory
                                                Caches
                 Bigger                        Registers
                                                  CPU
                                  Figure 15.1: The memory hierarchy.
