15.3. External Searching and B-Trees                                                            713
          Search and Update Operations
          We recall that in a multiway search tree T , each node v of T holds a secondary
          structure M(v), which is itself a map (Section 11.5.1). If T is an (a, b) tree, then
          M(v) stores at most b entries. Let f (b) denote the time for performing a search
          in a map, M(v). The search algorithm in an (a, b) tree is exactly like the one for
          multiway search trees given in Section 11.5.1. Hence, searching in an (a, b) tree T
                                    f (b)
          with n entries takes O( log   a log n) time. Note that if b is considered a constant (and
          thus a is also), then the search time is O(log n).
               The main application of (a, b) trees is for maps stored in external memory.
          Namely, to minimize disk accesses, we select the parameters a and b so that each
          tree node occupies a single disk block (so that f (b) = 1 if we wish to simply count
          block transfers). Providing the right a and b values in this context gives rise to
          a data structure known as the B-tree, which we will describe shortly. Before we
          describe this structure, however, let us discuss how insertions and removals are
          handled in (a, b) trees.
               The insertion algorithm for an (a, b) tree is similar to that for a (2, 4) tree.
          An overﬂow occurs when an entry is inserted into a b-node w, which becomes an
          illegal (b + 1)-node. (Recall that a node in a multiway tree is a d-node if it has d
          children.) To remedy an overﬂow, we split node w by moving the median entry of w
          into the parent of w and replacing w with a (b + 1)/2-node w and a (b + 1)/2-
          node w . We can now see the reason for requiring a ≤ (b + 1)/2 in the deﬁnition
          of an (a, b) tree. Note that as a consequence of the split, we need to build the
          secondary structures M(w ) and M(w ).
               Removing an entry from an (a, b) tree is similar to what was done for (2, 4)
          trees. An underﬂow occurs when a key is removed from an a-node w, distinct from
          the root, which causes w to become an illegal (a−1)-node. To remedy an underﬂow,
          we perform a transfer with a sibling of w that is not an a-node or we perform a
          fusion of w with a sibling that is an a-node. The new node w resulting from the
          fusion is a (2a − 1)-node, which is another reason for requiring a ≤ (b + 1)/2.
               Table 15.1 shows the performance of a map realized with an (a, b) tree.
                                          Operation     Running Time
                                                            f (b)
                                                M[k]    O  log a  log n
                                                           g(b)
                                           M[k] = v     O  log a  log n
                                                           g(b)
                                            del M[k]    O  log a  log n
          Table 15.1: Time bounds for an n-entry map realized by an (a, b) tree T . We assume
          the secondary structure of the nodes of T support search in f (b) time, and split and
          fusion operations in g(b) time, for some functions f (b) and g(b), which can be
          made to be O(1) when we are only counting disk transfers.
