718                                  Chapter 15. Memory Management and B-Trees
    C-15.11 Describe an external-memory data structure to implement the queue ADT
            so that the total number of disk transfers needed to process a sequence of
            k enqueue and dequeue operations is O(k/B).
    C-15.12 Describe an external-memory version of the PositionalList ADT (Sec-
            tion 7.4), with block size B, such that an iteration of a list of length n is
            completed using O(n/B) transfers in the worst case, and all other methods
            of the ADT require only O(1) transfers.
    C-15.13 Change the rules that deﬁne red-black trees so that each red-black tree T
            has a corresponding (4, 8) tree, and vice versa.
    C-15.14 Describe a modiﬁed version of the B-tree insertion algorithm so that each
            time we create an overﬂow because of a split of a node w, we redistribute
            keys among all of w’s siblings, so that each sibling holds roughly the same
            number of keys (possibly cascading the split up to the parent of w). What
            is the minimum fraction of each block that will always be ﬁlled using this
            scheme?
    C-15.15 Another possible external-memory map implementation is to use a skip
            list, but to collect consecutive groups of O(B) nodes, in individual blocks,
            on any level in the skip list. In particular, we deﬁne an order-d B-skip
            list to be such a representation of a skip list structure, where each block
            contains at least d/2 list nodes and at most d list nodes. Let us also
            choose d in this case to be the maximum number of list nodes from a level
            of a skip list that can ﬁt into one block. Describe how we should modify
            the skip-list insertion and removal algorithms for a B-skip list so that the
            expected height of the structure is O(log n/ log B).
    C-15.16 Describe how to use a B-tree to implement the partition (union-ﬁnd) ADT
            (from Section 14.7.3) so that the union and ﬁnd operations each use at
            most O(log n/ log B) disk transfers.
    C-15.17 Suppose we are given a sequence S of n elements with integer keys such
            that some elements in S are colored “blue” and some elements in S are
            colored “red.” In addition, say that a red element e pairs with a blue
            element f if they have the same key value. Describe an efﬁcient external-
            memory algorithm for ﬁnding all the red-blue pairs in S. How many disk
            transfers does your algorithm perform?
    C-15.18 Consider the page caching problem where the memory cache can hold m
            pages, and we are given a sequence P of n requests taken from a pool
            of m + 1 possible pages. Describe the optimal strategy for the ofﬂine
            algorithm and show that it causes at most m + n/m page misses in total,
            starting from an empty cache.
    C-15.19 Describe an efﬁcient external-memory algorithm that determines whether
            an array of n integers contains a value occurring more than n/2 times.
