Appendix B. Useful Mathematical Facts                                                      729
         Example B.18: Consider an experiment that consists of ﬂipping a coin until it
         comes up heads. This sample space is inﬁnite, with each outcome being a sequence
         of i tails followed by a single ﬂip that comes up heads, for i = 1, 2, 3, . . ..
              A probability space is a sample space S together with a probability function
         Pr that maps subsets of S to real numbers in the interval [0, 1]. It captures math-
         ematically the notion of the probability of certain “events” occurring. Formally,
         each subset A of S is called an event, and the probability function Pr is assumed to
         possess the following basic properties with respect to events deﬁned from S:
             1. Pr(∅) = 0.
             2. Pr(S) = 1.
             3. 0 ≤ Pr(A) ≤ 1, for any A ⊆ S.
             4. If A, B ⊆ S and A ∩ B = ∅, then Pr(A ∪ B) = Pr(A) + Pr(B).
              Two events A and B are independent if
                                             Pr(A ∩ B) = Pr(A) · Pr(B).
         A collection of events {A1 , A2 , . . . , An } is mutually independent if
                          Pr(Ai1 ∩ Ai2 ∩ · · · ∩ Aik ) = Pr(Ai1 ) Pr(Ai2 ) · · · Pr(Aik ).
         for any subset {Ai1 , Ai2 , . . . , Aik }.
              The conditional probability that an event A occurs, given an event B, is denoted
         as Pr(A|B), and is deﬁned as the ratio
                                                     Pr(A ∩ B)
                                                               ,
                                                       Pr(B)
         assuming that Pr(B) > 0.
              An elegant way for dealing with events is in terms of random variables. Intu-
         itively, random variables are variables whose values depend upon the outcome of
         some experiment. Formally, a random variable is a function X that maps outcomes
         from some sample space S to real numbers. An indicator random variable is a
         random variable that maps outcomes to the set {0, 1}. Often in data structure and
         algorithm analysis we use a random variable X to characterize the running time of
         a randomized algorithm. In this case, the sample space S is deﬁned by all possible
         outcomes of the random sources used in the algorithm.
              We are most interested in the typical, average, or “expected” value of such a
         random variable. The expected value of a random variable X is deﬁned as
                                               E(X ) = ∑ x Pr(X = x),
                                                        x
         where the summation is deﬁned over the range of X (which in this case is assumed
         to be discrete).
