Preface                                                                                     vii
      Contents and Organization
         The chapters for this book are organized to provide a pedagogical path that starts
         with the basics of Python programming and object-oriented design. We then add
         foundational techniques like algorithm analysis and recursion. In the main portion
         of the book, we present fundamental data structures and algorithms, concluding
         with a discussion of memory management (that is, the architectural underpinnings
         of data structures). Speciﬁcally, the chapters for this book are organized as follows:
            1.  Python Primer
            2.  Object-Oriented Programming
            3.  Algorithm Analysis
            4.  Recursion
            5.  Array-Based Sequences
            6.  Stacks, Queues, and Deques
            7.  Linked Lists
            8.  Trees
            9.  Priority Queues
           10.  Maps, Hash Tables, and Skip Lists
           11.  Search Trees
           12.  Sorting and Selection
           13.  Text Processing
           14.  Graph Algorithms
           15.  Memory Management and B-Trees
            A.  Character Strings in Python
            B.  Useful Mathematical Facts
         A more detailed table of contents follows this preface, beginning on page xi.
      Prerequisites
         We assume that the reader is at least vaguely familiar with a high-level program-
         ming language, such as C, C++, Python, or Java, and that he or she understands the
         main constructs from such a high-level language, including:
             • Variables and expressions.
             • Decision structures (such as if-statements and switch-statements).
             • Iteration structures (for loops and while loops).
             • Functions (whether stand-alone or object-oriented methods).
         For readers who are familiar with these concepts, but not with how they are ex-
         pressed in Python, we provide a primer on the Python language in Chapter 1. Still,
         this book is primarily a data structures book, not a Python book; hence, it does not
         give a comprehensive treatment of Python.
