66                                        Chapter 2. Object-Oriented Programming
   Documentation
   Python provides integrated support for embedding formal documentation directly
   in source code using a mechanism known as a docstring. Formally, any string literal
   that appears as the ﬁrst statement within the body of a module, class, or function
   (including a member function of a class) will be considered to be a docstring. By
   convention, those string literals should be delimited within triple quotes (”””). As
   an example, our version of the scale function from page 25 could be documented
   as follows:
         def scale(data, factor):
           ”””Multiply all entries of numeric data list by the given factor.”””
           for j in range(len(data)):
             data[j] = factor
   It is common to use the triple-quoted string delimiter for a docstring, even when
   the string ﬁts on a single line, as in the above example. More detailed docstrings
   should begin with a single line that summarizes the purpose, followed by a blank
   line, and then further details. For example, we might more clearly document the
   scale function as follows:
         def scale(data, factor):
           ”””Multiply all entries of numeric data list by the given factor.
           data      an instance of any mutable sequence type (such as a list)
                     containing numeric elements
           factor a number that serves as the multiplicative factor for scaling
           ”””
           for j in range(len(data)):
             data[j] = factor
        A docstring is stored as a ﬁeld of the module, function, or class in which it
   is declared. It serves as documentation and can be retrieved in a variety of ways.
   For example, the command help(x), within the Python interpreter, produces the
   documentation associated with the identiﬁed object x. An external tool named
   pydoc is distributed with Python and can be used to generate formal documentation
   as text or as a Web page. Guidelines for authoring useful docstrings are available
   at:
                    http://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0257/
        In this book, we will try to present docstrings when space allows. Omitted
   docstrings can be found in the online version of our source code.
